---
title: Beginner's_Guide
description: 
published: true
date: 2025-10-12T23:32:11.205Z
tags: 
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2025-10-12T23:32:06.767Z
---

This article is for the new player in the game of SURVIVALCRAFT. It will
help you start your first game, in
[HARMLESS](Harmless_Gamemode "wikilink") mode and learn how to use the
controls. You can explore more information by clicking on the links.

## First Game

When the game first starts up you will be in the **Main Screen**. Here
you can browse through the Help Topics when you click the **HELP**
button or start a new game with the **PLAY** button. You should be okay
with the settings that it starts with.

### Starting Your First Game

If you haven't played Survivalcraft before, you will have to start a new
world. Your first one should be in Harmless Mode so you can learn the
controls.![Main_Screen.png](Main_Screen.png "Main_Screen.png")

From the '''Main '''screen, tap the **SINGLE PLAYER** button to get to
the **Existing Worlds** screen. This lists the worlds you already have.
For your first time, it will be empty.

Tap the **NEW WORLD** button to get to the **Start A New World** screen.
This gives you a random world.

![New_World_screen.png](New_World_screen.png "New_World_screen.png")

Look over this screen and find the GAME MODE button. It will say
**CHALLENGING**. Tap it until it says **HARMLESS**. This game mode lets
you play without getting hunted by the animals so you can learn how to
play easier.

Leave the rest alone and tap **SETUP PLAYERS**

### Start Playing the Game

The game will create a new world and it might take a minute to start it
up. Then the opening video will play and you will be left standing
there, watching the ship sail away from you over the Great Eastern
Ocean. The sun is rising in front of you so you are facing the east.
<span>Look over your screen and you will see the </span>**[Onscreen
Buttons](Onscreen_Buttons/GUI "wikilink")**<span>. You can learn more
about them </span>[HERE](Onscreen_Buttons/GUI "wikilink")<span>.</span>

![Left_Alone_screen.png](Left_Alone_screen.png
"Left_Alone_screen.png")

![Weigh_Anchor_screen.png](Weigh_Anchor_screen.png
"Weigh_Anchor_screen.png")

![Pause_screen.png](Pause_screen.png "Pause_screen.png")

Tap the **\<** button to pause the game. You will see the **Game
Paused** screen. There are five buttons. The **HELP** button takes you
to the Help Topics screen, again. **QUIT** will save and leave the world
you're in and take you back to the **Main Screen**. You don't have to
worry about saving the game. It saves automatically.

Now, tap the '''\< '''button to return to the game. Only the **\<**
button will pause the game. When you press any other button, the game
will NOT be paused.

![Onscreen_buttons.png](Onscreen_buttons.png "Onscreen_buttons.png")

There are three sets of buttons/pads on the **Play** screen. They are
covered in detail [HERE](Onscreen_Buttons/GUI "wikilink"). Tap the
(**...**) button in the corner, to close the button bar across the top.
You can open or close this anytime. The [motion
controls](Onscreen_Buttons/GUI#Bottom_of_the_screen "wikilink") are at
the bottom. You should have a **MOVE** touchpad and a **LOOK** touchpad.

Place your right thumb in the **LOOK** pad and move it around to see how
it works.

Make sure you are not facing straight out to sea and use your left thumb
to move the character. Do it the same way by placing it in the **MOVE**
pad and slide it one way or another. The farther you slide your thumb,
the faster the character will move.

When you are comfortable moving and looking around, you can start
exploring the world. You should also learn all about the [Onscreen
Controls](Onscreen_Buttons/GUI "wikilink") before trying to do more.

### Getting Around at First

Check out the lay of the land. Note the various animals and plants that
surround you. It will be different for every new game. Do not hit the
animals or they might bite you back. See if you have mountains, hills or
flatland around you. Deserts, forests, grasslands or tundra are some of
the [Biomes](Biomes "wikilink") you will find. Each biome usually isn't
very big in Survivalcraft worlds so you can pick the ones you like
pretty easily.

You usually start on a beach and there's some grass close by. You can
walk around, and even climb some hills or whatever is around you. It's
best to stay out of the water but if you're in [Harmless
mode](Game_modes "wikilink"), it won't hurt the character.

The game should be on auto-jump so you won't have to tap to jump at
every little block. By tapping in the **LOOK** pad, you can make the
character jump when you want.

### Breaking Blocks

You can poke your screen with your finger tip and your character will
hit some things with whatever tool is in your hand. If you move close to
an animal and tap at it, you character will punch the animal. Be
careful, the animal might try to bite you back. If you are in Harmless
mode, they may attack you but it won't actually hurt you very much. They
will give up after a while.

Move yourself so you are close to some [sand](sand "wikilink") or
[grass](grass "wikilink") and look at it. Now touch and hold your finger
on the sand or grass. You will see it outline and some cracks will show.
When the cracks are extended to all the block, the block that you were
touching will be 'broken' and a small '[dropped
item](Dropped_Items "wikilink")' will appear. If you are close enough,
this item will get sucked up into your inventory slots. You can keep
holding your finger down and the character will keep trying to break
blocks wherever you are touching. This is how you gather ingredients for
crafting.

Lift your finger up to stop breaking blocks. You will probably now be
holding the block you just broke. Now turn and look at an open space.
Tap that space and the block you were holding should be placed where you
tapped. It has to have enough room to go there so, if it didn't work the
first time try to tap on another space a little farther away. This is
how you build things. (This is NOT crafting.)

### Collecting and Crafting

The first thing you usually want to start collecting is some
[wood](Oak_Wood "wikilink"). To make any
[tools](:Category:Tools "wikilink") or
[weapons](:Category:Weapons "wikilink"), you have to use a [crafting
table](Crafting_Table "wikilink"). To make a crafting table, you need
some wood. Go up to a tree and start 'punching' it. It will take a lot
longer to break the tree than it did the sand. This is because things
that are harder need harder tools to break them easier. An
[axe](Wooden_Axe "wikilink") is best for wood but you can use your hand
to collect enough wood to make a crafting table and a wooden axe. While
you collect the wood, break and gather a lot of [leaf
blocks](Oak_Leaves "wikilink"), too.

Once you have collected 3 wood blocks, you can make a crafting table and
your first tools.

Open the [personal crafting space](Onscreen_Buttons/GUI "wikilink") and
find the wood in your inventory. Touch and drag it to any crafting slot.
See the [crafting page](Crafting "wikilink") to learn more about
crafting. [Planks](Planks "wikilink") will show up in the output box.
Drag them into your inventory.

Now touch and hold the planks until the box gets highlighted. Now
release your finger and tap on each of the crafting slots to put one
plank in each. This will make your first crafting table. That's how you
split stacks.

Make sure that the table is in your
[hotbar](Onscreen_Buttons/GUI "wikilink"). Close the crafting space and
select the table in the hotbar. Now place it on the ground like placing
any other block.

Now tap on the table to get the full crafting area. You are ready to use
the [recipaedia](recipaedia "wikilink") to learn the recipes to make
things. See the page on [CRAFTING](Crafting "wikilink") to learn more.

Once you can craft things, you should make a [wooden
pickaxe](Wooden_Pickaxe "wikilink") and collect some
[cobblestone](cobblestone "wikilink"). Use this to make stronger tools.
Stone is much better than wood for tools and weapons.

Once you are gathering cobble, get some more so you can make a
[furnace](furnace "wikilink"). A furnace will let you [smelt
ores](Smelting "wikilink") into ingredients to use in crafting better
things.

### Getting Hungry and Tired

In Harmless mode, you get hungry but it takes awhile, then it only hurts
you a little bit and you regenerate pretty fast. You can go a long time
before eating but you do need to eat regularly in the harder modes. Open
[the **Body/Food** screen](Onscreen_Buttons/GUI "wikilink") and see your
character. When you have [food](:Category:Food "wikilink"), you can drag
it from your inventory, onto the body picture to eat it.

You will eventually need to eat but you can survive quite a long time
before *having* to eat. One easy way to get food is simply to stand
around and watch for birds to drop [eggs](eggs "wikilink"). You can pick
them up and eat them raw. This won't be enough food to survive in the
harder modes but will be good enough for now.

If you wander around you might find [pumpkins](Pumpkin "wikilink"). You
can break them and eat them too. Some other animals may come after the
pumpkins if you don't pick them up right away.

While you are wandering, you might hear animals fighting. Their attacks
sound like slapping noises and you might hear them complain, as well.
Look around and try to find the fight. If it isn't too far away, you
should go and watch them. One animal will probably be a meat animal and
the other a carnivore. If the meat animal is killed, you can run over
and pick up the meat that it drops. The carnivore will not attack you in
Harmless mode and you get some easy, free meat to eat.

Once you can make weapons, you can use a machete to kill some animals
for food. A [stone machete](Stone_Machete "wikilink") is much better
than a [wood one](Wooden_Machete "wikilink"). Not all animals will drop
food, however. Some will drop other useful items. [Wild
boar](Wildboar "wikilink") will come after
[pumpkins](Pumpkin "wikilink") if you drop them and the boar are good
food. Use your machete to kill the boar when they come to get the
pumpkins.

You should remember that sometimes even the mildest animal will turn and
attack you back. Learn how to defend yourself and still get the food you
need to survive.

You will also get tired and may even pass out, but the beasts won't hurt
you while you sleep. You can get cold and [freeze to
death](Body_Temperature "wikilink") if you're in a cold biome,
especially if you're wet. So stay where you won't get cold, for now. You
can just wait and let the character pass out from sleep, as long as
you're not in the middle of a fight or in water, etc. You really don't
need to build a temporary shelter in Harmless mode. You can wait until
you are ready to build a better one.

### Sleeping Better

Once you can gather and mine for resources then smelt and craft them
into tools, weapons, and other items  you can make a shelter better than
a hole in the ground.

There are many ways to make shelters but if you want to sleep in them,
they need a soft enough spot to sleep on. You just need one block, such
as Birch Leaves, Birch Wood, Carpet, Chest, Dirt, Dispenser, Furniture,
Grass, Mimosa Leaves, Mimosa Wood, Oak Leaves, Oak Wood, Planks, Sand,
Soil, Spruce Leaves, Spruce Wood, Tall Spruce Leaves, Wire Through
Planks, Wooden Slab or Workbench.

The shelter has to be secure as well. It needs to be sealed up from
invading animals, even in Harmless mode. But it's easy to make walls
from [leaves](Birch_Leaves "wikilink") or [planks](planks "wikilink") if
you're near a forest. Or you can make them from [sand](sand "wikilink")
if you're near a desert. A temporary roof can be made from
[leaves](Spruce_Leaves "wikilink"). You can seal a doorway up with sand
or leaves, and simply break it open once you have slept.

To go to sleep, stand on the soft block and open the [Body/Food
screen](Onscreen_Buttons/GUI#Body.C2.A0.C2.A0_.28person.29 "wikilink").
Tap the **Zzz** button to sleep. If something is wrong, you will be
told.

A common cause of sleep problems is the sun's rays falling on the body
from above. To sleep, you need to place 9 blocks above you and stand in
the center of the shadow.

You can build a more permanent shelter or improve your first one, with
some more time and effort. You'll probably want a
[door](wooden_Door "wikilink") and maybe some
[windows](window "wikilink"). Use the recipaedia in the help screen to
see how to craft a door. Use the [furnace](furnace "wikilink") to
[smelt](Smelting "wikilink") some [sand](sand "wikilink") into
[glass](glass "wikilink"). There are several pages on this wiki about
building good houses.

### Getting Dressed

You have to learn to [stay warm](Body_Temperature "wikilink") in colder
biomes, now. If you get cold, you can freeze to death in the harder
modes. In Harmless mode, your vision will still freeze over and you
won't be able to see and your movement will become very slow but you
will not take any damage. Stay in a warmer biome to avoid getting cold.
To survive in the cold, you will need to make
[CLOTHING](Clothing "wikilink").

To make clothes, you need to grow [cotton](cotton "wikilink") or get
[leather](leather "wikilink") and [fur](fur "wikilink") from the animals
that drop them. You can even change the color of your clothes with
[dyes/paints](Painting "wikilink").

You can protect yourself from the beasts that attack by making some
[armor](armor "wikilink"). It uses a lot of resources but can keep you
alive longer.

### Ready To Go\!

Once you know how to do all these things, you are ready to try
[Challenging mode](Game_modes "wikilink")\! You have to be able to get
ahead quickly and try not to die. But the whole world is out to get you.
That's why it's such a CHALLENGE\!

Before you move on, you should know:

All about [using the buttons](Onscreen_Buttons/GUI "wikilink") and
working the game.

How to [craft anything](Crafting "wikilink") and how to [find
recipes](Recipaedia "wikilink").

[Smelting](Smelting "wikilink") to get your resources.

[How to hunt,](Hunting_Tactics "wikilink") so you won't starve.

How to make [Clothes](Clothing "wikilink") and
[Armor](Armor "wikilink"), and when to [wear warm
clothes](Body_Temperature "wikilink").

How to build shelters until you can build a house.

-----

-----

See [Survival Guide](Survival_Guide "wikilink") for beginning a game in
Challenging / Cruel gamemode.  __NOEDITSECTION__

[Category:Help Pages](Category:Help_Pages "wikilink") [Category:Tips and
Guides](Category:Tips_and_Guides "wikilink") [Category:General wiki
templates](Category:General_wiki_templates "wikilink")