---
title: Block_Textures
description: 
published: true
date: 2025-10-12T23:34:03.786Z
tags: 
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2025-10-12T23:33:59.670Z
---

## Description

Block textures  are used to change the appearance of the blocks in the
world. This article describes how to get and use textures but does not
provide textures or links to them. 

## How to get Block Textures 

Textures (and worlds and skins) can be downloaded completely free from
Community Content or from other sites including
the [forum](http://survivalcraft.lefora.com/forums/1512065/SurvivalCraft-Textures/SurvivalCraft-Textures#.V4a8ilLmpdh%7Cofficial).
See the page on [Uploading and
Downloading](Uploading_and_Downloading "wikilink") first. This will
teach you how to use the built-in loader and how to direct download
files then import them into the game. 

### From Community Content 

When you are in the Community Content list screen, there is a drop-down
menu at the top-right, where you choose to see only textures. Scroll
through the files list until you find the texture you want to try and
select it. Then simply tap DOWNLOAD. It will be downloaded and
automatically imported into the game. 

### Copy link Download 

If you have the link copied into the clipboard, you can use this method
to download and automatically import the texture into the game. See
the [Uploading and
Downloading](Uploading_and_Downloading "wikilink") page for details. 

### Direct Download 

See the [Uploading and
Downloading](Uploading_and_Downloading "wikilink") page for details.
This method will NOT automatically import the texture into the game. You
will have to use the technique described on the [Uploading and
Downloading](Uploading_and_Downloading "wikilink") page to import them
into the game. 

### Backup the Texture

When you download ANY file from Community Content or use the Copy Link
method, the file is NOT backed up to the SD. This is because it is
already online and that IS the backup. However, you may wish to have it
backed up locally. Again, the [Uploading and
Downloading](Uploading_and_Downloading "wikilink") page will teach you
how to do that. 

## Applying the Texture  

After a skin or texture is downloaded and imported, it is available to
the game. Then you can use it in your worlds. 

To apply a texture to a world, you have to be in the CURRENT WORLDS
screen. This is the screen where you choose the world you want to play
in. 

Select the world but don't tap PLAY. Instead, tap the (...) button. This
will bring up the OPTIONS screen. At the top of this screen are two
selection boxes. One is for the texture and the other for the skin. Tap
the textures box and a drop-down menu will show up. It may take a minute
if you have a lot of them to pick from. Scroll through the list and
select the texture you want to use in this world. It can be changed at
any time. 

Now back out to the CURRENT WORLDS screen and tap PLAY. The world will
now be using the texture you chose. 

## Making Textures

The best way to create a new texture image is to start with an existing
one and modify it. Otherwise it is very difficult to get the proper
sizes and locations exactly correct.

To change the image, you must open it in a program that allows you to
modify the image on a pixel-by-pixel basis. Most picture editors do NOT
have this capability. It must also support transparency. You will likely
have to use a paint program, or one like photoshop.

You will need to identify each block in the image file. See this:

There are also good resources for texture makers on the [official
forum](http://survivalcraft.lefora.com). Plus there are people there who
may help you create your texture. There are plenty of textures available
for download as well. 

## Deleting Textures 

You will want to delete skins, textures and worlds you no longer want in
the game. This will keep the game file from getting too big. Plus the
list can take a long time to build when there are many items. 

To delete this content, choose GET CONTENT from the main screen. Then
tap MANAGE and this will bring up the list of all content that was
imported into the game. Scroll down and select the texture you want to
remove and tap DELETE. You can continue to delete more content or back
out of this screen. 

## Notes 

Block Textures does not affect everything, the following textures cannot
be edited:

  - Animals
  - Player (Customizable with [Skins](Skins "wikilink") instead)
  - [Clothing](Recipaedia/Clothes/Clothing.md "wikilink")
  - Smoke Particles
  - Boats (only when placed)
  - Fire (partially, you can only add a background behind the fire
    texture, but the fire particles on burning Blocks/Entities cannot be
    edited)
  - The Coloration of certain blocks like Plants, Leaves, Water or
    Painted Blocks (This may depends by [Biomes](Biomes "wikilink") or
    by [Painting](Painting "wikilink"))
  - Explosions
  - Fireworks effects
  - Lightnings
  - LEDs (partially)
  - Experience Orb

[Category:Gamesystem](Category:Gamesystem "wikilink")
[Category:Community](Category:Community "wikilink") [Category:Tips and
Guides](Category:Tips_and_Guides "wikilink")