---
title: Body_Temperature
description: 
published: true
date: 2025-10-12T23:34:31.912Z
tags: 
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2025-10-12T23:34:27.826Z
---

This page talks about the new effect, as of 2.1, of body temperature and
its implications.

__NOTOC__ __NOEDITSECTION__

## Description (from Recipaedia)

*When you are out in the cold without proper clothes, your body
temperature will drop. You view will start to freeze over and you will
start losing health. Find a warmer place or get near fire to warm and
dry yourself.*

*Too much warmth will do you no good either, standing too close to a
large fire will cause you to overheat.*

*Sheltered areas are warmer than outside. Plugging all the holes and
locking doors will make a shelter warmer still. Even a small hole open
to the elements will admit draughts and make a large difference to
temperature. Make a fire inside your shelter to make it homely warm and
allow you to take your clothes off.*

*Being wet dramatically increases your susceptability to cold, find a
warm place to dry yourself faster.*

*The best way to deal with cold is to wear multiple layers of thick, dry
clothes. You need to cover your entire body, leaving feet or head
unclothed will defeat most of the warming effect other clothes have.
Clothes made of animal fur are best for keeping cold out.*

## Warm and Dry

![A_Short_Movie_About_Freezing-0](A_Short_Movie_About_Freezing-0
"A_Short_Movie_About_Freezing-0")

This is a short video about getting cold.

Getting cold can be a major problem in the game. If you get wet, your
body temperature will drop fast and you have to dry off before it will
begin to warm again.

The best way to *get* warm and dry is to run to a warmer biome, if you
are outside and there is one close enough. The biomes are typically not
huge in the standard game so this is a good option.

The best way to *stay* warm is to be dressed properly. You can dress in
layers for best effect. See [Clothing](Clothing "wikilink") for more
information. This will not help you if you get wet, however. Any
insulation provided by clothing is removed while you are wet. Changing
your clothes won't make a difference.

You may be able to dry off and warm up by building a quick shelter and
sealing yourself off from the open air. This will not work in the
coldest biomes, though.

If you are wet and stuck in the cold or plan to stay in it then you can
stay warm by fire.

### Warming By Fire

#### Outdoors

You can set a coal block down and set it on fire with a match. This will
give some amount of heat however, in the open outdoors it will only warm
about 2 blocks away from it. A bigger fire with 3 blocks will warm an
areaÂ  about 4-5 blocks away. This will let you get warm without being
caught on fire.

Realize that it takes a minute to warm the area and more time to warm
your body. If you start your fire when you are already freezing, you may
not be able to warm up fast enough. Be prepared to start your fire as
soon as you start getting too cold.

For the most heat, you need every side and the top of the block burning.
Leave open all the blocks around the coal block and the fire block above
it - a 3 x 3 x 2 high space with the coal block in the center.

[Campfires](Campfire "wikilink") are very good at heating you up
quickly. They are very effective outside, but only last a short time.
They are good for emergency heat.

#### Indoors

Putting a fire in a sealed area is much more effective. If you dig an
emergency pit-shelter, you can dig it out a bit bigger and start a coal
block fire. This will dry and warm you quickly.

To best heat any indoor area every opening must be closed off to the
outside air. The fire will heat up to 30 blocks away and keep you
comfortable to about 20 blocks. 'Comfortable' means you won't get
warning messages about the chill. If you are using a cave that's less
than 20 blocks deep, you can just place the block at the back of the
cave and it will stay cozy inside.

You can design houses to use the full effect of fires even without
keeping a fire place in every room. See [Heating Your
House](Heating_Your_House "wikilink") for more details.

## Cooling Off

Usually you will not need to worry about staying cool. You will most
likely *only* get over-heated if you stay too close to a fire or stay
around magma. When you get overheated, your vision will start to turn
black and your character will groan and complain. Once this starts, you
need to get away from the heat as fast as possible. This fading will
repeat several times until you get away from the heat, or the character
passes out and dies.

The only known way to combat heat is to move to a cooler area. Jumping
in water will not cool you off any quicker. Get at least 20 blocks away
from magma to cool off or seal yourself away from it. If you seal away
the heat, you can wait to cool down and then try to break out again and
make a run for safety.

![Imagejed.jpg](Imagejed.jpg "Imagejed.jpg")
![Image-1419463431.jpg](Image-1419463431.jpg "Image-1419463431.jpg")
![Imagey.jpg](Imagey.jpg "Imagey.jpg") ![Imagehot.jpg](Imagehot.jpg
"Imagehot.jpg")

## Flu

Being cold for a long period can cause the flu. See
[Flu](Flu "wikilink") for more details.

## Notes

  - The 'wetness' is related to your body, not your clothes. If you are
    wet, changing your clothes to 'dry' ones will NOT reduce your
    wetness or warm you faster.
  - Although getting wet will make you get cold faster, it will NOT cool
    you any faster if you are overheated. Being wet will NOT prevent you
    from getting overheated.

## Related Pages

  - [Clothing](Clothing "wikilink")
  - [Heating Your House](Heating_Your_House "wikilink")
  - [Health and Damage System](Health_and_Damage_System "wikilink")

[Category:Tips and Guides](Category:Tips_and_Guides "wikilink")
[Category:Help Pages](Category:Help_Pages "wikilink")