---
title: Bow
description: 
published: true
date: 2025-10-12T23:34:48.558Z
tags: 
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2025-10-12T23:34:44.601Z
---

## Description (From [Recipaedia](Recipaedia "wikilink"))

*A bow can be used to fire various types of arrows.*

## Crafting

Requires 3 sticks and 3 strings. You get 1 bow. 

<div style="overflow:hidden">

![Crafting_a_Bow.png](Crafting_a_Bow.png "Crafting_a_Bow.png")

</div>

## Uses

  - Bows are used for archery and long distance hunting.

<!-- end list -->

  - To load an arrow in the bow, simply drag the arrow and drop it over
    the bow.  You can keep the arrows in the hotbar for faster loading. 
  - Bows can also activate targets. 
  - Can be used as a crafting ingredient to make
    [Dispenser](Dispenser "wikilink").
  - Bows have less accuracy than [Crossbows](Crossbow "wikilink").

![Bow.jpg](Bow.jpg "Bow.jpg")Bows have a long range. They can shoot 6
different types of arrows. Some [arrows](arrow "wikilink") may be
retrieved after striking an animal however they may break when hitting
something hard. Also be careful if the arrow rebounds, it can hit you
resulting in damage depending on the type of arrow and speed.

Bows are manually reloaded therefore it takes time to fire arrows. If
you try to shoot the bow while there is no arrow in it, it will display
"Load an Arrow First" on the screen. To load an arrow, drag an arrow
onto the bow (you must reload after every shot). You may stack up to 24
arrows. Released in the 1.24 update and updated in the 1.25 update.

If you hold the bow drawn and ready to fire for too long, you will get
tired and the bow will shake. You can 'sheath' the bow to stop the
shakes before aiming again. To release or 'sheath' the bow, move your
aim to the very edge of the display. You may also select another item in
your quick inventory, or tap any other button (with your other finger)
to stop aiming.

To hold the bow steadier and reduce the amount of shaking, it is
advisable to be crouched when shooting. ![Target.jpg](Target.jpg
"Target.jpg")

## Ammunition

  - [Wooden Tip Arrow](Wooden_Tip_Arrow "wikilink")
  - [Stone Tip Arrow](Stone_Tip_Arrow "wikilink")
  - [Copper Tip Arrow](Copper_Tip_Arrow "wikilink")
  - [Iron Tip Arrow](Iron_Tip_Arrow "wikilink")
  - [Diamond Tip Arrow](Diamond_Tip_Arrow "wikilink")
  - [Fire Arrow](Fire_Arrow "wikilink")

__NOEDITSECTION__ __NOTOC__

[Category:Weapons](Category:Weapons "wikilink")
[Category:Tools](Category:Tools "wikilink")
[Category:Crafted](Category:Crafted "wikilink")
[Category:Items](Category:Items "wikilink")