---
title: Frequently_Asked_Questions_(FAQ)
description: 
published: true
date: 2025-10-12T23:49:38.787Z
tags: 
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2025-10-12T23:49:34.747Z
---

## This page is for FAQs. Feel free to add a FAQ\!

THIS PAGE IS NOT TO HAVE ANY FEATURE REQUESTS. ANY USER POSTING
REQUESTED FEATURES ON THIS PAGE MAY BE BLOCKED FROM THE WIKI WITHOUT
WARNING.

Post your requests on the proper page, in the forum. Please. 

Q: How can we play multi-player?

A:  There is no multi-player mode yet. When it is available, we will
announce it. Until then, there is nothing we can do.

-----

Q: How do I make skins or textures?

A: The best source of information for this is on the [official
forum](http://survivalcraft.lefora.com). You will find many skins and
textures ready for download and extensive tutorials telling you how to
make your own. 

-----

Q: Can I tame wolves/coyotes/tigers/...? 

A: No, wild animals cannot be 'tamed' in SurvivalCraft. 

-----

Q: How do I tell which animals will attack me? 

A: The game tries to mimic reality.  See the [Animal
List](Bestiary/Animals.md "wikilink") in general. Almost every animal can be or
become dangerous, see [Animal
Behaviors](Technical/Animal's_Behavior_list.md "wikilink") page. 

-----

Q. Why do I die upon reaching a particular height?

A. Because that is the height limit.

-----

Q. I cannot destroy the bedrock\! BUG ALERT

A. It is intended. See the [bedrock](bedrock "wikilink") page. 

-----

Q. How to get a skin?

A. Make one or download one by going to the Main Screen \> Get Content
\> Community Content \> Skins \> Download. 

-----

Q: I saw a floating platform. Is this a bug?

A: Truly, the floating platform is a world generation bug. No need to
worry, it's even useful to escape those hostile animals. 

-----

Q. How can I make a bed to sleep? 

A: In SurvivalCraft, you don't need a bed to sleep. All you need is a
secure enough shelter and a soft place to lay on. Open the 'body panel'
and tap the Zzz... button. The game will tell you if there's a problem.
There is no actual bed item/block, but even wooden planks are 'soft'
enough. Make sure you have a roof on your shelter. 

-----

Q. My pet cow escapes every time\! What should I do?  

A. Use double fences or a completely enclosed room.

-----

Q. How do you make electrics? 

A. See [Electrics Category](:Category:Electrics "wikilink") for recipes
and uses.

-----

Q. How do you milk cows?

A. Milk cows by holding an empty bucket in your hand and tapping on the
cow. Be careful, because a nearby bull might think you are attacking a
cow that he's protecting and come after you. 

-----

Q. Another question: Eg. I build a square out of 9 dirt blocks, and
upload it. My friend downloads it and accidentally destroys the block in
the middle. If I look at my original square, will it have a block
missing in the center? Just asking.

A. No. Your friend can edit the world in any way and it will not affect
yours.

-----

Q: My crops are not growing right. 

A: There are particular conditions that must be met for certain crops to
grow to full maturity. See the [farming](farming "wikilink") page. 

-----

Q: I can't find the spawner egg for my favorite white tiger\! 

A: Several exotic animals (beluga, orca, white bull and white tiger) are
considered rare and do not have a spawner egg. But you can turn any
animal into another by [editing the Project
file](Hacking_the_Project_file#Entities_mods "wikilink"). Also, rare
animals' spawner eggs can be obtained by replacing item's value, for
example, in hand. Orca Spawner is encoded as 12058742. Beluga Spawner is
encoded as 12320886. White Bull Spawner is encoded as 1572982. White
Tiger Spawner is encoded as 6291574. 

-----

Q. I was building a house when a gnu interrupted me. I recently updated
Survivalcraft to 1.26, and knowing from this wiki that gnus are **not**
dangerous, I hit it, in hopes that it will run away. But instead, it
**attacked** me\! Was that a glitch?

A. As of 1.26, most docile animals like cows, gnus, reindeer etc. CAN
retaliate, although not every time. This isn't a bug, this is intended.

-----

Q.Cooked ravens eggs in Creative are turning into Cooked Moose Spawners.
Hello? Any logical explanation?

A: This is a bug. It existed for a while.

Note: Feel free to add a FAQ or a question on the article\!

[Category:Tips and Guides](Category:Tips_and_Guides "wikilink")