---
title: Invisible_blocks
description: 
published: true
date: 2025-10-12T23:55:27.669Z
tags: 
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2025-10-12T23:55:23.711Z
---

By building furniture blocks carefully, we can create 'invisible' blocks
of several types.

## Introduction

The basis of this is that we can use glass blocks in building furniture.
By carefully noting where the glass block texture is clear and ONLY
placing blocks there, the final furniture piece will also be clear\!

Note that this is only valid for the current default glass block
texture. Alternative textures will likely NOT work the same way.

## Invisible Furniture Blocks

The basic full-block can be constucted by building the model as a 13
block hollow frame and shrinking it into a 15 block space. Then shift
the model so that it's one block away from all edges. This fits all
blocks into the clear areas of the texture. This can be called an
invisible glass block.

<div style="overflow:hidden">

![Glass_Block_Frame.jpg](Glass_Block_Frame.jpg
"Glass_Block_Frame.jpg")

</div>

The next option is to build only a single plane in the same manner. If
it's placed near one face of the final piece, it could be called an
invisible glass face.

<div style="overflow:hidden">

![Glass_Block_Plane.jpg](Glass_Block_Plane.jpg
"Glass_Block_Plane.jpg")

</div>

The glass block texture and the way texture is placed on furniture makes
it impossible to make a useful plane near the center of the finished
block. So, with the default texture, we cannot have an invisible glass
pane centered in the block.

Another option is to have one single glass block. Shrink it into a 16
block space. Move it into a clear spot, similarly to the above. The
character can then pass through the block freely. The player likely will
not even realize there's anything there at all. This could be called an
invisible glass microdot.

<div style="overflow:hidden">

![Making_microdot.png](Making_microdot.png "Making_microdot.png")

</div>

## Uses

### Invisible Furniture Wires

This microdot (and all the rest) are considered a full block with
connected furniture. If they are made connected, they may be used to
connect other connected furniture pieces and could be thought of as
invisible wires. NOT wires in the electric sense but they WILL allow
connected furniture to respond without visible contact. The microdot
will also let the chracter pass through the block space so is most
suitable as 'Invisible wires'.

<div style="overflow:hidden">

<File:Invisible_wire_1.jpg> <File:Invisible_wire_2.jpg>
<File:Invisible_wire_3.jpg>

</div>

### Disappearing Walls

You can use a microdot as one state in an interactive furniture piece.
Then it will appear as if the block disappears when activated. Make them
connected and use this to make disappearing walls or doors. The
character can move freely through the 'disappeared' wall.

## Furniture Packs

This author has created a furniture pack that includes the
abovementioned blocks and more. Get it here:
<https://dl.dropbox.com/s/u5utud36h8u2jzd/Invisible%20y%20Stanimus.scfpack?dl=1>

Someone did another pack:
<https://vk.com/doc459932458_607708695?hash=412cd77dbff22ef33a&dl=cb95d21cfe98b0dd00>

## Notes

  - Multistate (interactive) furniture pieces will have the light
    transmission of the clearest state. If one state is invisible glass
    of any type, then the finished block will ALWAYS pass light through
    it as though it was a glass block, even if it looks like a solid
    coal block\!

[Category:Furniture](Category:Furniture "wikilink")
[Category:Concepts](Category:Concepts "wikilink")