---
title: List_of_the_Best_Seeds
description: 
published: true
date: 2025-10-13T00:00:05.967Z
tags: 
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2025-10-13T00:00:01.780Z
---

__NOEDITSECTION__

This page is for world seeds and their descriptions.

*(None of these seeds will work with V2.2, unless specifically noted
that the seed is for V2.2. V2.2 seeds usually will not work for prior
versions.)*

Please include:

  - Your username/IP
  - What version it works in
  - Description of world (Terrain features, biomes, etc.)
  - Picture(s) 

If any seeds are outdated, simply remove them.

Seeds used from version 1.25 and up still seem to work in version 1.28.

To see user map contributions, see [Map
Downloads](Map_Downloads "wikilink")

## Seed List

### Seeds for V2.2

**Werewolf**(v2.2)**:** (Found by QBSteve. Settings: Default) You spawn
near a tall mountain. At the base of the mountain is a forest (I haven't
found any small trees or fallen logs at the edge of the forest. Near up
north is a huge gravel beach. Behind the mountain is a snowy forest.
(Note: The image of the snowy area is uploaded, but I can not seem to
insert it here)
![Survivalcraft_2021-11-24_11-22-44.jpg](Survivalcraft_2021-11-24_11-22-44.jpg
"Survivalcraft_2021-11-24_11-22-44.jpg")
![Survivalcraft_2021-11-05_11-37-51.jpg](Survivalcraft_2021-11-05_11-37-51.jpg
"Survivalcraft_2021-11-05_11-37-51.jpg") **why**(v2.2): You spawn in a
mostly flat area, with many pumpkins in it. -Boarkey

**strage quark**(v2.2)**:** spawns you in a almost treeless continent
with giant icy mountain - bruuk123

**vaalbara**(v2.2)**:** really huge rocky cliffs, good for finding
exposed coal veins - bruuk123

**Tajikistan (with capital T) -** spawns you in a flat terrain, suitable
for building - bruuk123

**qatar** - same as Tajikistan, there is also a grave next to spawn with
pumpkins beside it - bruuk123

**Panama (with capital P)** - spawns you in a huge desert, with a really
tall mountain next to it - bruuk123

**nicaragua** - spawns you next to a green forest and huge mountain with
a river running through it - bruuk123 (sorry i cant add pictures to the
seeds cuz i edit this wiki on computer and play survivalcraft on phone
and i dont know how to tranfer files)

**7** (v2.2, biome size 0.5): if normal spawn, you spawn near glade with
the river behind the small hill to north-west. When spawn with the hard
location, you will need to run a bit to right and cross the bay (can
manage to reach the place before the first rain). Behind the river, you
will see a tall mountain. Cross the river and you will find a large
caves system, 3 entrances right from the river. Copper and coal are to
right in the middle cave. You will find plenty of clay here in this cave
(3 places), plus some clay in lakes on the beach: enough to build large
bricks house. Caves system is large and gives iron and diamonds early in
the game. If make first shelter below the river (where the 2 coal blocks
in the cave as the entrance), most mobs are usually stuck in the river
giving you time to get out or run away at morning. You can dig a tunnel
straight east below the river with the exit to the beach to avoid
dangers to meet mobs. The same for caves - dig through bottom of shelter
to north to reach the vertical chasm and its safe to dig to its bottom
and further on until reach the horizontal caves. Sometimes mobs are
already there, sometimes they kill right at start in the cave near the
river - depends on the luck. But overall, it's the best map I have ever
played in Survivalcraft.

**goalis100stag** (v2.2): this seed spawns you in an edge of a very
large mountain, perfect for making skyblock related maps

### Seeds for V1.29

**Simple Man**(v1.29): This seed is what I call a "Russian Roulette
seed". Reason being is because there are two graves that you can find
near spawn, either both jackpots or one being a jackpot or none of them.
Follow this; after you are facing the ocean, turn around to the west
(where the sun sets), then walk a ways until you get to a small desert
area. There should be a single grave there in the sand. Now, once after
you dig it out, turn ninety degrees left, where you are facing south,
and you should easily see a grave with basalt slabs. -CryptidHunter25

**Ed fed a bed**(v1.29): You spawn on a narrow, serpent-shaped piece of
land made of sand and grass. You spawn facing the ocean (like always)
and behind you is a bay with a few tiny islands. On the left is a little
bit of building space with some pumpkins. On the right is a snowy biome.
My username is
FuzzyFan.![Survivalcraft_2020-05-20_12-23-15.jpg](Survivalcraft_2020-05-20_12-23-15.jpg
"Survivalcraft_2020-05-20_12-23-15.jpg")

### Seeds for V1.25-1.28

**Not Minecraft**: (Version 1.27)   It will provide you with a horse
right at spawn, few sea predators, islands with trees, pumpkins, moose,
flat land around spawn. Also on one of the islands, there is a birch
tree that pierced the other one's trunk with leaves so there is a
natural birch tree that has leaves as a trunk. -Aylinerik

**Custom_Name**: (Version 1.27)   The place you are abandoned in is a
long coastline with a lake and mountains behind you so it's a lot of
water. Global Temperature: +4 Global Humidity: -6. -Aylinerik

'''SXFBC '''(version1.27): You spawn on a strip of land, surrounded by
an ocean and lake. To the left it connects to another island. To the
right, if you do some walking, is a cold biome. Behind you is a large
island with trees. -24.44.135.75/Dewleaf38

![Survivalcraft_2015-05-02_08-04-19-.jpg](Survivalcraft_2015-05-02_08-04-19-.jpg
"Survivalcraft_2015-05-02_08-04-19-.jpg")

'''MAGMA '''(version 1.25.17.0): Island with a long, thin beach and a
lake that runs through the world. Mountains are found beyond lake. Flat
land in the beach with lots of cattle and pumpkins - Apophis

'''12345 '''(ver 1.25.15.0) : In this seed you start out near the base
of a long flat peninsula that runs Southward which would be great for a
small town or estate. It has a good variety of biomes near the drop off.
(Within a km). A long mountain range runs North and South-west just West
of the entry and is rich in caves with ores. In just one cave system, I
dug about 100 iron without having to random mine at all. After playing
awhile I also have perhaps 200 diamond in storage. Ponds, lakes and
'rivers' are laced throughout the mountain range and with a bit of
landscaping, many can be connected together and to the ocean. (If boats
were only worth using\!)

Further inland, beyond the mountains is a wide stretch of flat lands -
grassy and open as well as snowy and forested. Good for hunting (and
dying, if you're not watchful).
I like to build up existing cave systems and make them my home(s) and
this world is giving me lots of options for that. If I start to get
bored, I'll open a creative instance of this world, check the next
mountain for interesting features (usually finding them) then re-enter
the 'real' one to explore in earnest.
I don't know if the seed affects the animal spawning but this is also a
very dangerous world. Perhaps it is the nearness of deserts to other
biomes but I cannot seem to avoid lions whenever I'm about - even in
snow. I have often found myself surrounded by a couple lions, a tiger,
and a few bear all passing by their normal prey to come taste the new
meat\! 
This seed is the most widely known secret combination (Good for your
luggage, too): 12345 

![12345_base.jpg](12345_base.jpg "12345_base.jpg")


\=== Seeds for other versions === **(exact version unknown)**

**Lorien:** My favorite seed so far is "Lorien" -- which is the name of
an enchanted forest in "The Lord of the Rings".

This seed features a great mix of biomes, plenty of food, abundant
wildlife, and the largest cave systems that I have yet encountered.
There is abundant coal, iron, sulfur, diamonds, copper, etc. available
within a short walk of the spawn point.

The initial spawn point is on a beach with a small field of pumpkins
directly ahead of you (West). Down the beach to your right (North) are
two high stone mountains and a large snowy biome. To your left (South)
is a large sand mountain with multiple caves.

If you advance straight ahead (West), you will go across the pumpkin
field, and the just beyond two small ponds of water, you will see a
large dirt block cliff-face topped with a mountain. Just over the brow
of that mountain is a HUGE cave system with more than enough minerals
for an entire game of Survivalcraft. Beyond that mountain is one of a
chain that extends inland (West) for about two more mountain peaks, or
maybe half a kilometer (50 blocks), terminating at a large inland lake.
To the left of it are extensive ponds, prairies, and forests; to the
right are ponds, fields and spruce forests; and directly ahead is a huge
desert biome.

In general, this seed is a massive land-mass with diverse biomes,
mountains, caves, and wild life. February 22, 2016 by A Fandom user

**0:** This is the perfect seed in Challenging, Cruel or Harmless modes.
You start out in a warm biome with lots of flat land, there is a little
bit of desert if you look to the left, and in my playthroughs, I saw a
herd of bison in there. There is also plenty of trees, with LOTS of ivy
on the trees, and there is a cave on the other side of a lake. With a
little bit of exploring, you can find some copper there. I played in
this world on Cruel, and in less than 3 weeks I found diamonds.
Definitely a great survival world\! Sorry, no pictures\!

**Minecraft**: Nice Mountain Formation, Plains/Desert full of graves
right of spawn and a cave that reaches bedrock with diamonds.
-LucarioMaster, No Account So No Photos.

**Circle Xflay**: Flat terrain with mountains surrounded by water - Dan

**Russian**: Winter forest with a beach near a cave filled with bears.
Very large amount of snow and very few cows. Lots of bears. Beach has a
coastline with some grass, and there is a desert near it filled with
coyotes. White tigers can be found farther up the snowy mountain -
Cleverjokestarter

![Russian_seed.jpg](Russian_seed.jpg "Russian_seed.jpg")

**Forest**: Forest with lots of horses and cows; very little snow.
Mountains and desert - cleverjokestarter
![Survivalcraft_2014-01-20_19-21-58-.jpg](Survivalcraft_2014-01-20_19-21-58-.jpg
"Survivalcraft_2014-01-20_19-21-58-.jpg")

![Survivalcraft_2014-01-20_19-18-58-.jpg](Survivalcraft_2014-01-20_19-18-58-.jpg
"Survivalcraft_2014-01-20_19-18-58-.jpg")

**Isla**: Icebergs -
cleverjokestarter![Survivalcraft_2014-02-02_14-51-40-.jpg](Survivalcraft_2014-02-02_14-51-40-.jpg
"Survivalcraft_2014-02-02_14-51-40-.jpg")

**Korea**: Large sea 

**Country**: Large green fields

**Kosovo**: Many cold spots near deserts. Has white tigers -
cleverjokestarter

**KILL all**: Spawns you near a snow biome with a large mountain with
limestone and gravel. Floating islands - Diego

![Seeds.jpg](Seeds.jpg "Seeds.jpg")

'''Cowardralph '''- Spawns on a narrow strip of beach. Nothing but water
can be seen  - stePH

**Pure Leaf**: Lots of trees and a cave near spawn point. Huge ocean by
cave. Lots of minerals - mattnp22

'''WATERFALL ''': Spawns on a strip of beach with a long lake behind.
The northern part of the world consists of a huge desert. Near the
desert on a strip of grass a herd of brown cows. Far from that part of
the world is a granite arch. northeast of the island a two-mountain
range. The eastern mountain has a two-granite top. If you dig one of the
two blocks on the top, far enough, will lead you to a cave with awfully
***lots*** of minerals. The southern part of the world is a very humid
jungle. There is ivy, water bodies, large circular caves and trees
everywhere. Both the desert and the jungle have small floating islands.
The island in the jungle has an oak tree growing on top of it. But the
strangest thing of the seed '''WATERFALL '''(Uppercase Letters are
Optional) is that it has lots and lots of sheer drops from dizzy
heights, mainly made of granite, ores, grass, sand and sandstone. -Seed
by
Morgan![Survivalcraft_2015-04-03_19-53-55-.jpg](Survivalcraft_2015-04-03_19-53-55-.jpg
"Survivalcraft_2015-04-03_19-53-55-.jpg")

**Flat**: A sort of *flat* world.

[Category:Options and Seeds](Category:Options_and_Seeds "wikilink")