---
title: Map_Downloads
description: 
published: true
date: 2025-10-13T00:01:31.617Z
tags: 
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2025-10-13T00:01:27.344Z
---

Here is a place you can post your creations for others to enjoy. You can
also post a direct download link to avoid the confusion in the Community
Content.

There are many more maps available in the [official forum at
lefora](http://survivalcraft.lefora.com/) . 

If you just want to see some interesting world seeds, look
[HERE](List_of_the_Best_Seeds "wikilink"). 

## Guidelines:

### Information

Please add your name so we know who to contact if there's problems with
the map. Also add the game version you used when creating the map. This
is helpful when there are upgrades that might change features of the
map.

### Content

You may post any type of world map here, just please indicate whether
it's an adventure map, a jumping (parkour) map, a creative build map or
a prepared survival type map. You are not limited by those types but try
to add some descriptive term to help others know what your map is about.

YOU MAY NOT POST OFFENSIVE OR OTHERWISE INAPPROPRIATE MAPS. Doing so is
grounds for an immediate block from this wiki. Your map will be removed
and you will be blocked, WITHOUT WARNING.

Links that do not access a map will also be immediately removed and the
poster will be blocked. DO NOT POST A LINK TO ANOTHER PAGE OR OTHER
SITE. This is for maps only. You may link to your profile in the
description, if you want to point to other links on your wall. The world
link MUST be a legitimate world map or the entry will be removed.

### Formatting Entries

To make the entries easier to browse, please follow the guidelines
shown. You can even COPY and PASTE the form to help format your entry.
Only copy the parts between the lines.

You may add more information but please at least fill in the form. If
you are having problems with anything here, feel free to contact one of
the admins:

[Aylinerik](user:Aylinerik "wikilink") or
[Stanimus](user:Stanimus "wikilink")

We may not be able to answer right away, but we'll try to get to you
quickly. Thank you.

-----

TYPE: the general kind of map it is (e.g: Adventure, City, Zoo,
Survival, Jumping, etc.)

DESCRIPTION: (describe the features of your map, you may include
pictures)

LINK: (direct download link address)

-----

## Worlds

#### **H20 Park**

![Survivalcraft_H2O_rides_side_veiw.jpg](Survivalcraft_H2O_rides_side_veiw.jpg
"Survivalcraft_H2O_rides_side_veiw.jpg")
![Survivalcraft_H2O_rides_sky_fall.jpg](Survivalcraft_H2O_rides_sky_fall.jpg
"Survivalcraft_H2O_rides_sky_fall.jpg")
![Survivalcraft_H2O_rides.jpg](Survivalcraft_H2O_rides.jpg
"Survivalcraft_H2O_rides.jpg")

This is an adventure map where the player has to fight through a series
of watery traps.

Version on which map was built:1.27(It doesn't matter as no change to
water between 1.27 and 2.1)

Mode: Adventure

Link(for 1.27):
<https://www.dropbox.com/s/xqslrogcbcs93t1/h2o%20rides.scworld?dl=0>

Link(for
SC2):<https://www.dropbox.com/s/mgsxv06sej32ttd/h2o%20Park01.scworld?dl=0>

Please add your experiences, tips and any bugs on my
[wall](http://survivalcraftgame.wikia.com/wiki/Message_Wall:MJaz)

#### **Training**

![Survivalcraft_training_into.jpg](Survivalcraft_training_into.jpg
"Survivalcraft_training_into.jpg")![Survivalcraft_training_side_veiw.jpg](Survivalcraft_training_side_veiw.jpg
"Survivalcraft_training_side_veiw.jpg")
![Survivalcraft_Training.jpg](Survivalcraft_Training.jpg
"Survivalcraft_Training.jpg")

This map was built for practicing to win against other maps. The player
can experience a variety of traps and puzzles commonly seen in adventure
maps and some new ideas for their maps.

Version on which it was built:2.1

Mode: Adventure

Link:<https://www.dropbox.com/s/jjwfr35z10atpl2/trainingv3.scworld?dl=0>

Please add your experiences, tips and any bugs on my
[wall](http://survivalcraftgame.wikia.com/wiki/Message_Wall:MJaz)

#### **Terrain Changer**

![Survivalcraft_terrain_changer.jpg](Survivalcraft_terrain_changer.jpg
"Survivalcraft_terrain_changer.jpg")
![Survivalcraft_terrain_changer_ice_form.jpg](Survivalcraft_terrain_changer_ice_form.jpg
"Survivalcraft_terrain_changer_ice_form.jpg")

Have you ever wished to have a changeable courtyard. Then see this
world. You can change your courtyard to 8 different terrains from sand
to ice and soil to basalt.

Version on which it was built:2.1

Mode: Creative

Link(Easy controls):
<https://dl.dropbox.com/s/8yr6ovzx3t0ene2/terrain%20change%20%281%29.scworld?dl=1>

Link(Easy circuit):
<https://dl.dropbox.com/s/14khwni68kik6lc/terrain%20change.scworld?dl=1>

Please add your experiences, tips and any bugs on my
[wall](http://survivalcraftgame.wikia.com/wiki/Message_Wall:MJaz)

#### **Metro** **Train**

I have made an easy, working, and wonderful metro train. I have left it
simple for others to easily understand it.

Version on which it was built:2.1

Mode: Creative

Link:
<https://dl.dropbox.com/s/4vx1oam37una98d/metro%20train.scworld?dl=1>

Please add your experiences, tips and any bugs on my
[wall](http://survivalcraftgame.wikia.com/wiki/Message_Wall:MJaz)

#### **Long way**

This is my first map. build in 1.26. Just try it. It is hard I bet

Mode: Adventure

Link:
<https://dl.dropbox.com/s/5ciwyw7g383tjre/Longway%20latest.scworld?dl=1>

Please add your experiences, tips and any bugs on my
[wall](http://survivalcraftgame.wikia.com/wiki/Message_Wall:MJaz)

#### **Small survival home**

A map created by 5.198.4.136 about a small survival home set out with
all of the things you need. This is the link:

<https://dl.dropbox.com/s/3ccgtwcy0qgdl9q/You%20Rule.scworld?dl=0?dl=1>

#### **Guff Links Golf Course**

Hole 6. A fairway view of hole 6 on a rainy day, par 4. Hole 3. A tee
box view over looking hole 3s, par 3 green. Hole 15. A majestic view
from the tee box of hole 15, par 3. Hole 18. A beautiful view of hole
18, par 5s green from the stands. Hole 9. A nice view of hole 9, par 5
from the club house. Hole 10. Over looking hole 10s, par 4 from the
stands.

By: Isaiah Oliver

Written on February 15th, 2017. Made and published in creative mode.

Download Link:
☀https://dl.dropbox.com/s/1q84997e0gr2yg1/Guff%20Links%20Sa.scworld?dl=0?dl=1

I've created an 18 hole beautiful golf course. This course is a par 71
with a fun and challenging layout. I've created multiple teeboxes to
provide an easier or harder challenge for the rookie or veteran player.
The course has a St. Andrews feel, from its tall weeds, to its deep
bunkers. When using the bow (club) and arrow (ball), getting your
distance control right takes a while to perfect. Getting the putting
right takes a while to perfect also. Once you perfect your distance, the
course becomes easier, and your scores will get better. With all that
said, have fun playing Guff Links golf course\!

This map was created in version 1.29.

#### **Sunny City v100**

1.  Version 100 of Sunny City. Not accurate. Share it\!

[<https://dl.dropbox.com/s/zgs0i8anmw4v7zp/SUNNYCITY100.scworld?dl=10>](https://dl.dropbox.com/s/zgs0i8anmw4v7zp/SUNNYCITY100.scworld?dl=1)

#### **Adding City v136 Map: Murat Can Gümüş**

Version 136 of Adding City. Not accurate. Share it\!

<https://dl.dropbox.com/s/vy0oo6dztz24zrv/AddingCity136.scworld?dl=1>

#### **Rothtairod**

*Rothtairod* is a city-RP map consisting of the small fictional
countries of Rothtairod and Undesia, which are subdivided into small
cities and villages. Rothtairod was developed by
[PlantChampion](User:Plant_Champion "wikilink"). As of 2016, development
for the map has ceased, though development may resume in late 2019.

The download links are currently unavailable, but a download link for
Version 2.3.2 will be added as soon as possible.

#### **Apple Tree Bay 2.1**

Just like skyblock you can survive here. It has so many things like
treasures, horses, trees, fields, etc. It is an inspiration from the
Ku-ring-gai Chase National Park.

UPDATE: I recently finished 2.0 version\! You can download bellow:

UPDATE 2: I discovered bugs and complications so i made a 2.1 version
with stone chunks, tall spruces, falling trees, stack empty buckets
(causing to add more buckets), start world with dawn instead of noon and
bug fixes

UPDATE 3: Version 1.0 will be deleted from the server because i made a
similar version named *Apple Tree Bay Demo* and it will be downloadable
from the Community Content \[EDIT\] The demo version has been
succesfully published to the Community Content. That means that version
1.0 it's now extinct.

UPDATE 4: I resumed development of the map, i think version 3.0 will be
ready for the mid-2020.

UPDATE 5: Now it has a discussion wall for version 3.0 and bug fixes:
you can go help me [here](Thread:46767 "wikilink").

UPDATE 6: Verison 3.0 will be re-made over, will be delayed to 2021.

Version 3.0: TBA

Version 2.1:
[download](https://dl.dropbox.com/s/switnfsaqu6i1y2/Apple%20Tree%20Bay%202.1.scworld?dl=1)

Version 2.0:
[download](https://dl.dropbox.com/s/w2c9cjs5ioyri5p/Apple%20Tree%20Bay%202.0.scworld?dl=1)

Report any bugs to me in [this discussion
wall](Thread:46767 "wikilink"), **Created by Einstein8P**

#### **Kill That Reindeers**

I started making it in November 2014 when i watched Merry Madagascar and
i got **HYPER ANGRY** with a reindeer that got angry with penguins (i
think it was Donner, dat sounds weird), now, after 5 years of
development, changes and crashes, i just finally finished it

DOWNLOAD HERRE:
<https://www.dropbox.com/s/675n0xpwtt1ohmv/Kill%20That%20Reindeers.scworld?dl=0>

Report any bugs to me in my
[wall](Message_Wall:EinsteinBlllllllllll "wikilink"), **Created by
Einstein8P**

#### **☀NMASC**

It is a recent map series

which has it [own discussion wall](Thread:46494 "wikilink")

Version 1 only a swamo

version 2 a flower prarie,rye grassland, fort bogey,city ruins,swamp
town,alpine trail, alpines.

ask me Canislupusiscool for bugs,ideas,and any criticism I would love to
hear your ideas.

[Category:Concepts](Category:Concepts "wikilink") [Category:Options and
Seeds](Category:Options_and_Seeds "wikilink")
[Category:Gamesystem](Category:Gamesystem "wikilink")
[Category:Community](Category:Community "wikilink")
[Category:Content](Category:Content "wikilink")