---
title: Staying_On_Course
description: 
published: true
date: 2025-10-13T00:15:46.358Z
tags: 
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2025-10-13T00:15:42.274Z
---

Even with a compass and magnet, you can still become hopelessly lost in
Survivalcraft's infinite terrain. There is no guarantee that you will
always have your compass with you. You could very well die and lose it.
So below are some back up plans in the event that you are to lose your
compass.

## Knowing Your Terrain

As you explore your world more and acquire more experience, you will
find that you will know your terrain fairly well. Because Survivalcraft
has infinite terrain, you will never know it all, but knowing even a
small amount helps. This is good for short journeys to find food,
resources, etc.

As you go exploring one important rule to follow is also taught in
real-world woods-craft. **Turn around often\!\!\!** It can be surprising
to realize how different everything looks once you have gone far enough
away and only then turn around to come back. If you look behind you
frequently as you head out, you can spot landmarks that you can use on
your way back.

## Sand, Gravel, and Dirt

Sand, Gravel, and Dirt are all cheap items that can be found nearly
everywhere. If you plan on leaving home for a while, you can leave a
trail behind you. I do not recommend, however, that you do this on a
long and treacherous journey. This is good for moderate journeys, as you
can just follow your trail home\!

## Torches

![Torch2.png](Torch2.png "Torch2.png")

If you plan on spending many nights away, you can use torches to mark
your path. These are a good item to use. They are fairly inexpensive to
make, and they are very easy to spot in the dark. They give off light
for 15 blocks in the dark (counting vertical distance too) and canmbe
seen from a long distance away. Just hang them on trees, in the sand,
etc. every 15 blocks or so until you arrive at your desired location.
You can also very easily take them down and take them home with you as
you go, as they can be used again and again.

Note: If you are hopelessly lost, you may try suicide. Then you'll be
spawn back to the last point where you've slept.

## Getting Unlost

If you do find yourself hopelessly lost in the world and you haven't
placed any magnets, there is one final method to try to find your way
back. This will only work if you built your house near the ocean, or you
know how to find it from the original spawn point. For this reason, it's
always a good idea to build something at the drop-off point before you
start roaming the world. 

Remember that the ocean is essentially an infinite edge to the landmass.
If you travel eastward from anywhere in the world, you will eventually
get to the ocean. Once you get there, make some monument that you will
recognize. Now turn north or south and follow the ocean until you find
the drop-off point.  If you know that your wandering has been generally
south from the drop-off, then you would turn north at the ocean and
vice-versa. 

If you don't have a clue whether you went north or south, just pick one
and start walking. If you don't spot the drop-off in several days of
searching, it's time to turn around. Go back to the monument and start
the other way. If you don't find the drop-off after several days in this
direction, it's time to start a new life in the world. 

### Coordinates Cheat

The game now will display the character's coordinates when it's paused
in creative mode. If you're at the point where you don't care about
keeping the world 'pure', you can always restart it in creative mode.
Then check your coordinates. The drop-off point is usually about
6000–6200 blocks N/S, the Y coordinate.  The X coordinate is typically
about 2000 but you always start on the ocean shore so you don't need to
worry about that coordinate, or the Z coordinate. 

  - Note that since version 2.1, negative coordinates are used and the
    drop off point is closer to 0,0. Also, there is now a South coast.

Simply fly east to the ocean and check the coordinates. Then fly North
or South to get to the drop-off. North is higher numbers in the
coordinates and West is higher in the Y coordinates. 

As above, this only helps if you know how to get to your home from the
ocean/drop-off point. 

### Hacking the Project.xml file

Replace your "...Name="Position" Type="Vector3"..." (coordinates) with
one of the following coordinates:

1.  GlobalSpawnPosition (drop-off point),
2.  Sapling's coordinates,
3.  Magnet's coordinates,
4.  Crafting table's coordinates,
5.  Chest's coordinates,
6.  Furnace's coordinates,
7.  Dispenser's coordinates, ect.

If you teleport yourself to the block, add one to the height (middle
coordinate).

## Determining North

![Original_texture_with_cardinal_points.png](Original_texture_with_cardinal_points.png
"Original_texture_with_cardinal_points.png")It is easy to find North if
you are outside and the weather is fair. Simply watch the motion of the
sun or stars. Face the direction they rise from and North is to your
left.

If you are underground or it's raining, it's much harder to tell
directions but not impossible. Gravel, planks and granite blocks have a
pattern that may be used to tell the compass directions. See the
following image. Simply place one of these blocks or find one then look
at the top of the block. Remember this only applies to the default
texture. Using another texture may make these tricks unusable (or even
easier\!).

## Caves

Many caves are simple and finding your way back out is easy. However,
some can be very extensive and confusing. When exploring one of these,
the following techniques can be helpful. Of course, you can always just
dig yourself upward if you still have a usable pickaxe but the reason
you're in the cave is to mine for materials and you probably will use up
the picks before heading back out.

One very effective method is to bring a full stack (or more) of torches
plus some other block that is not seen underground. Leaves are very
cheap and good for this purpose. Glass is even better but not as cheap.
Wicker lamps would be better yet.

\- As you enter and roam the cave, place your torches on the wall on one
side of the path. Say, the right side. Put them right on the lowest
block near the floor. Space them out close enough that you can spot the
last one placed when you put the next one down. This way as you leave
you just make sure all the torches are on your left.

\- When you come to a fork in the path, place a torch (or the other
block) on the ground, in the center of the path that you just came
through. Then as you are leaving, you will know which branch to take in
the fork. Also place the first wall torch right at the opening of each
branch of the fork.

\- Some cave areas are more like Swiss cheese than any actual path. In
this case it can be best to place several torches on the ground when you
enter this type of area. Then try to light up the whole area without
wasting too many torches. You may also want to remove a lot of the
'messy' stone and open up the area so the exits can be seen easier.

\- In the Swiss cheese caves and some other cases, it can be helpful to
add the 'other' block near the roof, to make it easier to spot your
exit. This is where it is especially beneficial to have glass for the
other block as it is immediately noticeable and can be seen clearly from
farther away. Especially if you put a torch either above or just below
the glass.

As you mine, you might break into another cave system. Mark the tunnel
you just made like its a fork, with the torch on the ground. Also use
the other block or more torches to mark it special like you would in a
swiss cheese area.

If you had particularly good luck down one path but didn't finish mining
it, you can mark this path as special. As you walk back out, just place
one of your other blocks next to the torch at the entrance to that path.
Be sure to mark each fork on the way, as well. This way when you come
back for the rest, it will be easy to see which path has the goodies\!

If you do a lot of spelunking (caving) in long, complex systems or
several at once you may want to mark branches that you have explored and
are now 'empty'. An easy way is to go to the opening of that path and
place a second torch directly across from the first one you placed on
the right wall. Place the new one on the 'left' wall. Now as you come
back through this area, you can easily see the two torches and will know
that you already cleared out that path.

If you have the great fortune to be in a world with plenty of pumpkins,
they give you an even better trick. Jack-O-lanterns are very visible and
have a face on only one side. You can use this to great benefit in caves
as well as in the open. Stairs also work for this trick but do not
provide any lighting and are harder to spot than Jack-O's. You simply
place the pumpkin on the ground so that the face is looking the way that
you came\!\!\! Then whenever you run across a pumpkin, you will always
know the direction back. So good\!

## Related Pages

\+ [Coordinates](Coordinates "wikilink")

[Category:Concepts](Category:Concepts "wikilink") [Category:Tips and
Guides](Category:Tips_and_Guides "wikilink") [Category:Help
Pages](Category:Help_Pages "wikilink")