---
title: Werewolf
description: 
published: true
date: 2025-10-13T00:23:21.148Z
tags: 
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2025-10-13T00:23:17.169Z
---

__NOTOC__ __NOEDITSECTION__

## Description (from [Bestiary](Bestiary "wikilink"))

*"During full moon nights, wolves turn into werewolves. Can be easily
seen at night due its red shiny eyes. Very dangerous, hunts in packs and
is much stronger than ordinary wolf. Able to jump high. Will turn back
into wolf at dawn."*

## Description

Werewolves are supernatural creatures that inhabit Survivalcraft. While
these beings do share the same appearance as wolves, they differ in that
they stand on their hind legs instead. Note that regular wolves can turn
into werewolves on full moon/new moon nights, as shown below:

<div style="overflow:hidden">

![Werewolf_transfer.jpg](Werewolf_transfer.jpg "Werewolf_transfer.jpg")

</div>

Werewolves are extremely hostile (Harmless and Creative modes being the
exception unless hit) and can jump up to 3 blocks high. Upon killing a
werewolf, there is a VERY small chance of it dropping a
[Diamond](Diamond "wikilink"). In addition to this, werewolves can also
be spotted from a good distance due to their glowing red eyes. Note that
you'll only be able to see these eyes when the creature is staring at
you which is shown below:

<div style="overflow:hidden">

![Werewolf_eyes.jpg](Werewolf_eyes.jpg "Werewolf_eyes.jpg")

</div>

## Appearance Biome

Werewolves transform from regular (grey) wolves, so they are found in
every biome except for deserts.

## Uses

Werewolves are incredibly dangerous to hunt due to their superior
jumping ability, speed, and attack strength in comparison to that of the
Player. Nevertheless, these creatures can still be killed and drop
Diamonds. They only rarely drop diamonds but if you make a trap, it
could be worthwhile.

NOTE: the chance of dropping diamonds has changed through several
versions of the game. In 1.29, it seemed they didn't drop diamonds at
all. In 2.0, the chance is extremely small.

Werewolves can be spawned in [Creative
Gamemode](http://survivalcraftgame.wikia.com/wiki/Creative_Gamemode)
using a [Spawner
Egg.](http://survivalcraftgame.wikia.com/wiki/Creative_Eggs)

Starting with V2.1, werewolves may be disabled by turning off
SUPERNATURAL CREATURES.

## Notes

Werewolves can normally jump up to 3 blocks high. However, this rule can
be broken if other werewolves are present as these creatures can jump on
top of each other (which can become apparent in particularly tight
spaces). As a result, a werewolf standing on top of another will then be
able to jump up to 4 blocks high. So to protect yourself or your animals
from them you will need a high fence: Five blocks for a wooden fence or
4 blocks for an iron one or a stone wall. (Note: You can jump over a 1
block high wooden fence\!)Â 

A werewolf's defense is no greater than that of regular wolves. However,
they can do much more attack damage and they're also faster in this
form. Rather expectedly then, if a werewolf is attacked in an open area
(example: a wide expanse of snowy tundra) until it reaches low health,
the beast will run away (faster than the Player can) which will make it
nigh impossible for the Player to land the final blow on them. Taking
this into account, the Player would likely have an easier time of
killing these creatures in biomes full of obstructions, such as thick
forests, which are better suited to cornering and killing a werewolf
without the hassle of futilely chasing them down in an open space.

## Related Pages

  - To see regular Wolf, click [HERE](Wolf "wikilink").

[Category:Animals](Category:Animals "wikilink")
[Category:Entities](Category:Entities "wikilink")
[Category:Monsters](Category:Monsters "wikilink")