---
title: Split_Screen
description: 
published: true
date: 2025-10-13T00:15:06.178Z
tags: 
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2025-10-13T00:15:02.288Z
---

Split Screen is a feature added in 2.1 for having between 1 and 4
players in the same world.

## Setting Up 

To start off, you'll need at least 2 people for split screen. Split
screen is either touchscreen, keyboard and mouse, or by gamepad
controller. Decide which one would be best for you; touchscreen for
large devices like tablets, keyboard and mouse for a person on a
computer, or gamepad for TVs or all-purpose situations. Another player
can join a world by either creating a new world.

For a new world, on the character set up screen, next to the green
button on the bottom, there is an "Add Another". Pressing this will
repeat the character process for the other player. Proceed as normal

<div style='overflow:hidden'>

![Pause_And_Stats.png](Pause_And_Stats.png "Pause_And_Stats.png")
![More_Actions_Menu.png](More_Actions_Menu.png
"More_Actions_Menu.png")

</div>

If joining an existing world, go into that world and pause the game
within the menu. The stats menu should show up and on the
farthest button on the right, press the button with 3 dots. This opens
up the extended menu and shows other options. What we're looking for is
the Edit Players, as that will open a character screen for all the
existing players. Each player is listed here with their portraits,
clicking on a portrait will open a menu where you can change a
character's skin, and name, but not their gender. To add another person,
press New Player. That opens the character setup screen.

<div style='overflow:hidden'>

![Edit_Players.png](Edit_Players.png "Edit_Players.png")
![Set_Up_Player.png](Set_Up_Player.png "Set_Up_Player.png")

</div>

If the screen orientation is not to your desire, you can change the
screen set up. By repeating the steps above up until the point where
you're at the Edit Players menu, a button that says Screen Layout can
help solve your problem. It is there where you can change what your
split screen will look like. 

You can't control them, they can.

<div style="overflow:hidden">

![20170628_195351.jpg](20170628_195351.jpg "20170628_195351.jpg")

</div>

## Notes

  - Multiplay can 'break' adventure mode and other pre-made maps\! When
    an additional character is spawned, they will always spawn at the
    drop-off point, no matter how well the map is set up, unless it is
    ALWAYS kept with that many players.
  - If sea level of the world set high enough and player spawn with a
    boat, newly added player will always spawn with new boat which can
    exceed number of maximum boat in an area

So, adventure and cruel mode (made) maps should be created with all 4
players. Then the user will have to delete the other characters (every
time they restart).

[Category:Tips and Guides](Category:Tips_and_Guides "wikilink")