---
title: Chest
description: 
published: true
date: 2025-10-12T23:38:09.336Z
tags: 
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2025-10-12T23:38:05.408Z
---

__NOTOC__ __NOEDITSECTION__

## Description (From [Recipaedia](.. "wikilink"))

*A Chest made of wood is a good place to store excess items that you
can't or don't want to carry. It will hold up to 16 stacks of items.*

## Crafting

To craft a chest, you will need 8 [wooden planks](planks "wikilink").
You get one chest. 

![Chest_craft.png](Chest_craft.png "Chest_craft.png")

## Use

To open a chest, simply touch it and a UI window will open up. Then you
can drag items from any slot and place them into any empty slot in
either the chest or your inventory. You can also add items to another
slot with identical items. If there is room for more, they will be added
to that slot. Any left over items will stay in their original slot. To
close the chest, tap either the body or the inventory icon on the upper
left of the screen.

When you break a chest, all the items inside will 'pop' out as [dropped
items](Dropped_Items "wikilink"). You may pick up these blocks if you
have enough room in your inventory. Some may be lost if they fall out of
reach (such as falling into [magma](magma "wikilink")) or if an animal
eats them first.

As of version 1.27, chests will collect items thrown or dropped onto
them. This feature may be used in automatic or semi-auto drop collection
systems. 

## Warning

You will destroy chests if you are not careful with the item in your
hand. If you are holding a match, it will ignite the chest instead of
opening it\! A bucket of lava will pour over the chest destroying it and
setting everything around it on fire.

Items that will activate instead of opening the chest are as follows:
Match,  Bucket - empty or water or lava filled,  Whistle, Rake, Boat
and  Saltpeter. 

## Notes

  - Chests can be placed underwater.
  - They do not need an open space above them in order to function
    properly
  - They do not combine to form larger chests
  - They can be useful in collecting/making a bird egg farm.
  - It can hold up to 640 items.
  - It has a 4X4 storage space.

[Category:Items](Category:Items "wikilink")
[Category:Crafted](Category:Crafted "wikilink")
[Category:Blocks](Category:Blocks "wikilink")