---
title: Spiked_Plank
description: 
published: true
date: 2025-10-13T00:14:54.818Z
tags: 
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2025-10-13T00:14:50.889Z
---

__NOTOC__ __NOEDITSECTION__

## Description   (From [Recipaedia](.. "wikilink") )

*Wooden spikes penetrate flesh. The spiked planks can be placed on the
floor, on the walls and on the ceiling. Touching them will cause injury.
Trap pits are often lined with them. Spikes can be electrically
controlled and will extend/retract on a rising edge of an electric
signal.*

## Crafting

Crafting requires 3 [sticks](stick "wikilink") and 3 [wooden
slabs](Wooden_Slab "wikilink"). You get 2 spiked planks.

![Craft_Spiked_Plank.jpeg](Craft_Spiked_Plank.jpeg
"Craft_Spiked_Plank.jpeg")

## Uses

Spiked planks are useful for trapping animals and fortifying your base.

### Making a Trap

Find a heavily mob infested area and dig three or four blocks down then
plant the spiked planks and climb out. Then cover your pit with [grass
trap](grass_Trap "wikilink") and some markers so you don't fall in.
Check on it daily and with luck, you'll be rewarded with food.

This kind of trap can spawn naturally. They are found in plains and
snowy plains. You may walk into one, if you're not careful. These blend
in with the environment, even hiding under snow\! Animals may step into
one pit, alerting you that the area may be covered in more pit traps.

### Electrics

Spiked planks can be used with electrics. By sending a signal pulse to
the planks, the spikes will either compress or contract. They can even
be used in place of a normal door.

[Category:Natural](Category:Natural "wikilink")
[Category:Electricity](Category:Electricity "wikilink")
[Category:Items](Category:Items "wikilink")
[Category:Crafted](Category:Crafted "wikilink")
[Category:Blocks](Category:Blocks "wikilink")
[Category:Fuel](Category:Fuel "wikilink")