---
title: Hunting_Tactics
description: 
published: true
date: 2025-10-12T23:54:30.625Z
tags: 
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2025-10-12T23:54:26.422Z
---

This page has tips to help you hunt/fight/trap the animals you will need
to survive.

## General

First learn about the animals you want. Many have a 'weakness'. For
instance, almost every animal will hesitate at the entrance to a 1-block
wide tunnel. They don't like to be so confined. Some CANNOT pass through
this opening. Rhinos are wider than 1 block and just can't fit through
this opening. If there's a door in the opening, others may think it's
closed to them. But most CAN poke their head through far enough to bite
you, if you are close.

It may be a good idea for noobs to practice fighting in harmless mode.
The animals will act the same to each other but leave you alone until
you hit them. You might save your life if you are prepared to throw out
a slab of bacon, or two. (I doubt it works. Moreover, it’s easier to
reenter the world to end the chase.) A hungry lion might stop chasing
you to get the easy meat. Then you could turn back and attack it while
it's distracted.

## Animal Fights

If you hear animals fighting, this could be your chance to get some free
stuff. Find the fighters and see who they are. If possible, follow them
to see who wins. For example, you might be able to jump in and grab the
drops from a pack of wolves if they were beaten by an angered bull\! The
last wolf might even kill the bull and you will get leather and meat\!

Or a rhino may have just tangled with a swarm of piranhas and is very
hurt. You might just kill it with one lucky blow.

Just (always) be aware of what other beasts may be around. The
carnivores will start to come to any meat dropped, so you will need to
pick it up and move out quickly.

A pack of wolves may be fighting with the bull in a herd of cattle. If
they run from the herd, and they usually do, you can jump in and kill
some cows. Then go to see who wins the fight\!

## Wolves and Coyotes

You can get leather from these animals but hunting them is dangerous
because they tend to run in packs. There is a way to separate one from
the pack, however. It can only be used during the day because they are
too aggressive at night. You should have at least a stone club and
copper machete is much better. 

Watch the pack from a safe distance and wait until one is a little
separated from the rest. Cautiously approach that one until it notices
you. Move slightly closer until it feels threatened and it will come
after you. Quickly start backing up, do NOT hit it yet. The rest of the
pack wiill not be alarmed and you can have it chase you far enough from
the pack to hit it without the rest joining the fight. 

Make certain you are far enough away because once it's hurt too much, it
will try to run back to the others. You must land the killing blow
BEFORE it gets close to the rest. If you think it might be too close,
just wait. It may turn back around and come to you again. They often
return to the fight before they heal enough to need more than one hit. 

### Fighting the pack

These animals are braver but stupider in their pack mentality. You can
successfully fight a pack if you're prepared for it. You need an iron
machete and some flat space to move around in. Make sure the entire pack
is in front of you. Just one that sneaks up behind you can mean the end
of your hunting career. 

Go up and hit one at the edge of the pack and start moving backwards.
Once the pack is engaged, you must keep running backwards. Hit each one
as it gets close enough. Once it's sufficiently hurt, it will back off
and another will take its place. 

When you hit a new one, the pack defense kicks in and the wounded
animals will come back to help it's brothers. Then it will go down with
just one more blow. They forget how badly wounded they are when coming
to help the others. 

When you're backing up, try to move in a big circle. This can get the
wounded ones around in front of the healthy ones, making it easier to
kill more before they're all hurt enough to run away. Once all the rest
are badly hurt, there will be no more coming at you and you may have to
chase them down to finish them off. Don't chase them into a heavily
forested area because it's too easy for one to hide behind a tree and
then get behind you. 

## Bear

You will need to hunt bears for fur if you are to make the warmest
clothes. Bears are very dangerous, however, and a new player should not
approach one. If you are inexperienced or just don't feel comfortable
approaching bears, you have 2 options to hunt:

**Option 1:**

Make a trap. You need to make a deep pit, about 3 blocks down, and cover
the floor with spike traps, or cactuses. Then make grass traps and cover
the hole so animals can't see it. You then must stand behind it, and
throw a stone chunk at the bear, or put pumpkins over it for bait. The
animal you hit will run right towards your trap and dies because of the
spikes. And then, you've got fur\!

**Option 2:**

Another way is to stand on a two block high tower or a tree, holding a
weapon. When the bear comes over, hit it. Keep hitting it until it
starts to run away. Then chase it and continue to hit it until it dies.
It will be afraid of you, so you can chase it without being harmed. Be
careful as you chase it because other dangerous animals may be nearby.
Also, make sure you don't get lost while chasing it.

## Hunting for Food

### Small Bird

Birds are a meek, frightened animal that will fly away whenever you go
near them. But they are weak, so you can kill them with one smack of a
wooden club if you could get close enough. Unfortunately, you will
likely starve before you can get enough birds this way. Using a bow and
arrows is the best way to kill birds. Stone tip arrows are recommended,
as they do enough damage to destroy the bird with one hit and are
ridiculously easy to obtain as soon as you can find a feather. First
make a spear to get even one bird for its feather. Even a wooden spear
will kill small birds in a single hit. Once you get a feather or two
this way, you can throw away the spear and just use the bow.

### Fish

Fresh water bass, sea water bass and rays will all drop 1 piece of raw
fish when killed. Although they swim away, and are pretty fast so you
should trap them in a small place and kill them. Bass are harmless but
rays can hurt you. Yellow rays deal more damage than brown rays, so be
careful when in the water. Rays can also dig into the mud and sand.
Brown rays into muddy lake beds and yellow rays into sandy lake beds,
making them almost impossible to see. You should move a boat into the
water. Then, hold an iron machete in your hand. Then go to the bottom
and look for rays, but be careful because they dig. This is not
recommended for beginners.

Here's another way to gather fish without any tools, if you find some in
water WITHOUT piranha\! Dig a trench from one edge of the water, up to 6
blocks. This creates a flowing stream. Swim or wade around the fish and
punch it to get moving away from you and guide it into the flowing
water. Once it's caught by the current, it's usually trapped. Scare it
into the trench and just replace the dirt block to seal off the trench.
The water will stop and the fish will die of suffocation. Free raw
fish\! This trick will also work with rays, just be careful to not step
on them.

### Cattle

Cows can give you two types of food: milk and bacon. When you go too
close to cows, bulls will start to attack you. Make sure to kill the
bulls first. Then you can milk the cows and kill them for bacon. The
black cow regenerates milk faster than brown cows. A black bull will
only protect black cows, and a brown bull will only protect brown cows.
So given there are no black bulls, you can milk and kill black cows,
even if there are brown bulls close by.

## <span style="font-size:20px;">Hunting for Diamonds</span>

In order to make the best possible tools, you will need diamonds. One
way to get diamonds is to kill [Werewolves](Werewolf "wikilink"). Wolves
may transform into werewolves at the full or new moon and can drop
diamonds when you kill them.

Werewolves are able to easily jump 3 blocks high, run very fast and have
powerful attacks, so you will need to be very careful when trying to
kill them. They are almost never alone and it's best to trap them rather
than hunt them. To hunt them, you might try standing in a tree, or
walking backwards and hitting them as you go. This can be effective, but
is not for beginners. If you are a new player, I suggest standing in a
tree. When hunting werewolves, take only the necessities, nothing you
aren't prepared to lose. Once you hit, you can't quit... until they die,
or you do. 

### Werewolf Trapping 

Trapping wolves then waiting for them to transform is effective but can
be boring if the full or new moon is days away and wolves turn
aggressive if you are too close to them. You may instead have your trap
ready then only go to it on the day before the new/full moon. When night
falls, wolves and werewolves will scent you and come to get you. If you
plan your trap well, they will walk right into it while trying to get to
you.

The moon is full or new every 4 days so you can count the days or you
could build an [Early Werewolf Warning
Alarm.](Alarm_circuit "wikilink") That alarm only needs a
[sign](sign "wikilink") , a [Memory Bank](Memory_Bank "wikilink"), some
[wires](Electric_Wire "wikilink") and a
[RTC](Real_Time_Clock "wikilink"). The bank must be programmed but the
code is provided on the [Alarms](Alarm_circuit "wikilink") page. (The
Programmable Alarm section.) 

You will need to build a trap for them. Any trap has three objectives:
keep the beasts from escaping, keep the character safe and provide a way
to kill the beasts. There are many ways to accomplish this and one is
shown in the [Circuit
Cookbook](User_blog:Stanimus/Circuits_Cookbook "wikilink") world by
Stanimus. 

In summary, the trap is a cage with an electric double door. You stand
on top of the cage, out of the reach of the werewolves, with the doors
open. They will enter the cage to get closer to you. Then you close the
doors and activate spikes in the floor to kill off the werewolves. The
trap has a way for you to get into the cage safely, to collect any drops
(diamonds). This idea can be modified so it can be built into the side
of a mountain or on an open plain. You should build it close to a safe
house and in an area where wolves are plentiful. 

Remember that werewolves can jump 2.5 blocks alone (so you need 3 blocks
high wall) but may jump onto another werewolf and then can jump at least
4 blocks up (so you need 4.5 blocks high wall). When one of them stands
on activated spikes and another stands on the first, it can get out of a
pit 5 blocks high. Therefore, if you use spikes, to be safe, make sure
you have a wall or platform at least 5.5 blocks above the ground. 

### Other Traps

This is an older way to trap wolves to kill werewolves to get diamonds.
Wolves are much more aggressive now and won't let you push them around
like this, any longer. 

  - **First**, gather some wolves in a 1 block tall room. I made the
    walls from wooden fence and the roof is from normal planks. At day
    time, they![The_"warm"_shelter_-D.jpg](The_"warm"_shelter_-D.jpg
    "The_\"warm\"_shelter_-D.jpg")![Diamonds.jpg](Diamonds.jpg
    "Diamonds.jpg") aren't hostile, so you can work with them easily.
    Put some bacon in the room, and then make sure they can't escape.
  - **Then**, you must wait for a full moon/new moon. As you know,
    werewolves are more than 1 block tall, so this means that they can't
    survive in a 1 block room. So, they will die. You just have to wait
    until they die.
  - **Go and collect them :)** It would be fine if you'd make a path, at
    least chose an area without many hostile animals, because it's
    night, and if an animal wants to eat you, all animals around will
    want. Diamonds will disappear soon, and maybe they'll not last until
    day comes, so it's the best choice to make a path to your home, or a
    place you are protected in. 

[Category:Tips and Guides](Category:Tips_and_Guides "wikilink")
[Category:Help Pages](Category:Help_Pages "wikilink")