---
title: 8+1_things_for_the_perfect_survival_house!
description: 
published: true
date: 2025-10-12T23:29:21.709Z
tags: 
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2025-10-12T23:29:17.527Z
---

## Description

Don't like your survival house? Want it to be better? Well here are
eight things that can help to make your survival house perfect for
survival\!

Note: These are in no particular order.

## Crafting Table and Furnace

The crafting table and furnace are very important. Basically, they make
survival possible, allowing the player to smelt and craft things. Tip:
more than one furnace is always a good idea.

<div style="overflow:hidden">

![Survivalcraft_2015-12-08_13-26-36--1-.jpg](Survivalcraft_2015-12-08_13-26-36--1-.jpg
"Survivalcraft_2015-12-08_13-26-36--1-.jpg")

</div>

## Roof

Lightning might strike your house so it is important for it to be
lightning-proof. Consider making the roof out of a non-flammable
material, such as [bricks](Brick_Wall "wikilink"). Basalt matches very
well with wood, it is the classic roofing material in Survivalcraft.

## Chests

Chests allow you to store things you can't carry. They are useful for
many reasons (e.g. you are chopping a tree down to gather wood, you try
to pick up the logs but you can't, your inventory is full). Looks like
you need a chest\! If you cannot get a chest for some reason, a good way
to save space in your inventory is to stack things. Note: some things
can't be stacked, like tools and boats. Tip: The more chests, the more
storage\!

<div style="overflow:hidden">

![Bik.jpg](Bik.jpg "Bik.jpg")

</div>

## Mine

A mine is useful for gathering resources, like coal, iron, copper, etc.
These minerals can be used as fuel, or to make durable tools, electric
components, etc. Never dig down when mining, always carve stairs or dig
horizontally. This way you have more chance to find ores and don't have
to waste resources getting back up again. Tip: always bring a pickaxe
and a shovel of high grade when mining.

<div style="overflow:hidden">

![Mine.jpg](Mine.jpg "Mine.jpg")

</div>

## Place to Sleep

Sleeping is useful for avoiding the night, where visibility is low and
dangerous animals like werewolves can sneak up on you. Sleep is also
possible in the daytime. Birch Leaves, Birch Wood, Carpet, Chest, Dirt,
Dispenser, Furniture, Grass, Mimosa Leaves, Mimosa Wood, Oak Leaves, Oak
Wood, Planks, Sand, Soil, Spruce Leaves, Spruce Wood, Tall Spruce
Leaves, Wire Through Planks, Wooden Slab and Workbench are all suitable
for sleep. The player can sleep on as little as one block, as long is it
is suitable for sleep and under good shelter. To make your shelter good
enough, just place 9 blocks above you and stand in the center of the
shadow. Tip: You can only sleep if you are tired enough.

<div style="overflow:hidden">

![Sleep_plsce.jpg](Sleep_plsce.jpg "Sleep_plsce.jpg")

</div>

## Infinite Water Source

Water is a vital component for survival. It can be used especially for
farming and making bread. But it's annoying when you have to walk all
the way to that lake or ocean just to get water right? Well not
anymore\! A simple way to make an unlimited water source is by simply
digging a two by two ditch that's one block deep, then fill it with
water. Whenever water is taken from this ditch it will just fill back up
again, making it infinite. Obviously, the well can be decorated if you
want it to be. Tip: Making a three block strip of water is also an
infinite water source.

<div style="overflow:hidden">

![WAterl.jpg](WAterl.jpg "WAterl.jpg")

</div>

## Stables

A stable is a good place to keep a horse, donkey, or camel. Rideable
animals are useful for getting from place to place quicker, and avoiding
dangerous animals (as they can't attack you when your riding an animal).
Stables can be as simple as a fenced off pen, but if making it a
building make sure the entrance is three blocks high and two blocks wide
(to allow you to ride in and out) this can be done with two doors and
two trapdoors. Tip: camels can jump two blocks high.

Also note that you will die instantly if the animal you are riding jumps
when you are on it if your head hit the ceiling. So build the stable
high enough.

<div style="overflow:hidden">

![Sjj.jpg](Sjj.jpg "Sjj.jpg")

</div>

## Cow Pen

A cow pen is useful for gathering milk. A decent 5 block by 5 block,
fenced off area is a good place to keep cows. To herd cows, a whistle is
useful. A rideable animal should be used to keep up with them as well.
Keeping a bull around isn't a good idea, because if you attack one of
the cows accidently when milking them, the bull will attack. To milk a
cow, Tap the underside of the cow with a bucket in your hand. Tip: black
cows regenerate milk faster than brown cows.

Herding Tips: It is very difficult to get animals through the fence
gate. You can use cheap blocks (dirt, sand, etc.) to make this easier:
By placing cheap blocks around your fence, you are allowing animals to
come into your fence, but not out. So you can simply use the whistle to
herd the cows into the fence. They will jump onto the cheap blocks, and
into the fence\! Another thing you can do is throw a flower, ivy, etc.
into a fence with cheap blocks surrounding it. Then the cows will just
run into your fence :)

Note: In 1.26 bulls will be useful to protect your herds and be careful
to separate bulls when you milk a cow, use flowers or grass to lead your
bulls.

<div style="overflow:hidden">

![Jkkk.jpg](Jkkk.jpg "Jkkk.jpg")

</div>

## Crop Farm

A rye farm is useful for making bread, a cotton farm will clothe you for
the foreseeable future and a pumpkin farm will fill your stomach in no
time. To plant a seed, tap on a grass block with a rake, which will
transform it into dirt if it isn't already. Then rake the dirt again and
tap the top of the block with cotton, pumpkin or wild rye seeds in your
hand. The soil should also be fertilized with [Saltpeter
Chunks](Saltpeter_Chunk "wikilink"), fenced off and have plenty of
water. To make bread, place nine rye seeds in a each slot of a crafting
table. This will make flour. Put flour and a bucket of water in a
crafting table to make dough, then smelt the dough in the
[Furnace](Furnace "wikilink") to create [Bread](Bread "wikilink").
Filling your Crafting table with 9 [Cotton Wads](Cotton_Wad "wikilink")
will create [canvas](canvas "wikilink"), which can be used to make
dyeable clothing (See the [Farming](Farming "wikilink") page for a more
detailed explanation) A large farm may be needed to sustain a player.

<div style="overflow:hidden">

![Rye.jpg](Rye.jpg "Rye.jpg")

</div>

## Tracking the way to HOME

![Survivalcraft_2020-07-27_16-23-38.jpg](Survivalcraft_2020-07-27_16-23-38.jpg
"Survivalcraft_2020-07-27_16-23-38.jpg") You may need to travel around
and may get lost. It is best to have a compass with you all time. Keep
it in the handcrafting columns so that it won't use up a space that you
use frequently. If also keep a magnet in your home so that even if you
spent a night asleep away from home you can trackback your way back to
your home.
![Survivalcraft_2020-07-27_16-23-22.jpg](Survivalcraft_2020-07-27_16-23-22.jpg
"Survivalcraft_2020-07-27_16-23-22.jpg") It is a good idea to make your
home on a small hill and make a few floors high so that it will be
spotted from far. If you ever find magma take a bucket of magma and let
it flow from the top of your house through 4 sides. This can keep your
home warm inside and you can see it from far away even at night. Make
sure to guide the magma to a hole so that it doesn't spread in your
courtyard.

## Related PagesÂ 

  - [Beginner's Guide](Beginner's_Guide "wikilink")
  - [Farming](Farming "wikilink")
  - [Cattle Farming](Cattle_Farming "wikilink")
  - [Egg Farms](Egg_Farms "wikilink")
  - [Tips, Tricks and Common
    Mistakes](Tips,_Tricks_and_Common_Mistakes "wikilink")

[Category:Tips and Guides](Category:Tips_and_Guides "wikilink")
[Category:Help Pages](Category:Help_Pages "wikilink")