---
title: Heating_Your_House
description: 
published: true
date: 2025-10-12T23:53:45.010Z
tags: 
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2025-10-12T23:53:40.995Z
---

The upgrade to 1.26 introduced temperature and moisture effects that the
player has to deal with. If you wish to build a house in the colder
biomes, you will need to provide some heating so your character does not
freeze to death. You could constantly wear heavy furs and replenish them
since they wear out fast. Or you could build fires in your living areas.

## Fireplaces

To heat a smaller area without walls, a basic fireplace can be used.
This can be as simple as a few blocks removed from a (non-flammable)
wall with a burning coal block inside. It can be the central focus of a
larger room as well. It could be a traditional looking fireplace, or it
can even be hidden from view.

![Fire_in_wall.jpg](Fire_in_wall.jpg "Fire_in_wall.jpg")This is an
example of the most basic indoor fire. The glass blocks protect the
character from catching fire. It is not very efficient but works well
enough for small rooms.

![Firepit.jpg](Firepit.jpg "Firepit.jpg")This is an example of a firepit
style fire. Again, the glass blocks are to protect the character. The
spaces between the limestone must be left open to let the heated air
out.

This is an example of a fireplace in a
house.![Fireplace.jpg](Fireplace.jpg "Fireplace.jpg") All materials used
in the fireplace and surrounding it are not flammable.

![Heat_duct.jpg](Heat_duct.jpg "Heat_duct.jpg")Here is an example of a
'hidden' fire. The actual fire is in the room below this one. The hole
in the wall (and floor) allows the heated air to enter this room. As
long as there is an air path from the fire into the room, it will be
heated. The fire does have to be close enough to the room to heat it
properly, too. That means no more than 30 blocks from the farthest
corner in the room.

It is very important to be careful where you make your fire. You can
easily burn down your entire house or a forest, if the fire gets out of
control. A small fire can ignite blocks on the other side of a wall, 2
blocks away.

## Whole-House Furnace

I (Stanimus) have recently done some extensive testing on the heating
effects of fire and have some interesting conclusions. For the full
report, see [my blog](User_blog:Stanimus "wikilink"). Here, I present
one of the more exciting results - **you can build a hot-air furnace**
and run ductwork to heat your house\!
This lets you put doors on your rooms without cutting off the heat
supply and you don't have to put a fireplace in every room.

### Background

The first thing you need to know is that a fire will heat a sealed area
up to 30 blocks from it. At 30 blocks, you will have a temp of '5' (on
the thermometer) even when the outside temp is '0' or lower. At 10
blocks or less, the temp will be at least '8'. A '5' is warm enough to
keep you from freezing even without clothing on, so you can have a
reasonably sized house and heat it from just one fire block.
Any room within this 30 block sphere will receive heat from the fire IF
there is at least a one block air path between the room and the fire.
The actual length of the path is not critical. This lets us use ductwork
to connect to the heat source. The room will be heated almost as well as
if it had a direct, line-of-sight path to the fire. If you are concerned
about leaving an opening to each room, you could place a door at the
opening and only leave it open when you wish to heat that room.
Unfortunately, a trap door will not work. It seems the game still
regards a trap door (or fence gate) as a seal - open or closed.

### Furnace Design

The hot air furnace needs to be designed properly for the best results.
You need a space at least 3 x 3 blocks and 2 blocks high. Place the coal
block on the floor in the center and light it. Connect your ductwork to
this furnace at the same level as the fire block, not the coal block for
the most heating.

### Ductwork Design

Careful layout of your house will let you put your ductwork so nobody
can tell it's there. For instance you can run it in the floor, in the
block directly under walls. Then if you leave out just one block at the
bottom of that wall, it will create a heat vent to the rooms on either
side of that wall.

If you have a corner where 4 walls meet, the duct can be run up (or
down) through the very corner and the walls will hide it.

The duct can weave around as much as you need as long as it stays inside
the 30 block radius.

## Notes

  - Almost every placed item will block air flow, even if it is not a
    full block in size. Doors will block air flow when closed but allow
    it when open. Trap doors and fence gates will block air flow whether
    open or closed.
  - Carpet and snow will block air flow so be careful when using heat
    vents. If your vent is at the bottom of the wall and you place a
    carpet right in front it, you will prevent the heat from entering
    the room.
  - Glass will allow some heat to pass through it. With a solid glass
    wall around a fire, you can still get heat from the fire to about
    3-4 blocks away from it.
  - See also [Body Temperature](../Recipaedia/Construction/Mechanics/Body_Temperature.md "wikilink").

__NOEDITSECTION__

[Category:Tips and Guides](Category:Tips_and_Guides "wikilink")
[Category:Help Pages](Category:Help_Pages "wikilink")