---
title: House_Ideas
description: 
published: true
date: 2025-10-12T23:54:18.872Z
tags: 
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2025-10-12T23:54:14.845Z
---

__FORCETOC__This article showcases some ideas for building houses.
These ideas may be fanciful such as the pumpkin house or more technical.
If you add one, please add the date and your name. You may include the
world download link or just add pictures.

-----

## Make a pumpkin house\!

Find a grassy area and put [pumpkins](../Recipaedia/Plants/Pumpkin.md "wikilink") down as big as
you want your house. Put a layer of [grass](../Recipaedia/Terrain/Grass.md "wikilink") block and
then more pumpkins. Repeat. Sleep in the middle so you have a shelter.

<div style="overflow: hidden">

![Pumpkin.jpg](Pumpkin.jpg "Pumpkin.jpg")

</div>

## Modernist House

Based on a house I saw in the forums but heavily modified and
customized. I'm pretty sure
[this](http://survivalcraft.lefora.com/topic/19405405/modern-house) is
where I first got the design. It's *Modern House* by generator011. The
dropbox link is giving me trouble now, so I'm not positive that's the
right one.

I used the CARTOON texture found in Community Content.

There's plenty of nice features inside, too. Oh, and you gotta see
what's on the roof...

<div style="overflow: hidden">

![Mod_House1_ft.jpg](Mod_House1_ft.jpg
"Mod_House1_ft.jpg")![Mod_House1_fl.jpg](Mod_House1_fl.jpg
"Mod_House1_fl.jpg")![Mod_House1_rr.jpg](Mod_House1_rr.jpg
"Mod_House1_rr.jpg")

</div>

You can download the world
[here](http://app.box.com/s/be97xav31uyidvek5n2s0tsf6p63pekc). That
world also has the Pancake House in it.

## Bridge House

This house was built as a bridge over a river and hangs over a waterfall
the river makes.

<div style="overflow: hidden">

![Bridge_House.jpg](Bridge_House.jpg "Bridge_House.jpg")

</div>

## Pancake House

This house came from another idea. It was going to be a doughnut house
but that was technically challenging so this was to be practice for
making circles and ovals. Instead it grew into a project of its own.
Each floor has a stairway to the next floor that's supposed to be hidden
from the outside view. It still needs some work. Each floor has a view
of the sky.

<div style="overflow: hidden">

![Pancake_House.jpg](Pancake_House.jpg "Pancake_House.jpg")

</div>

You can download the world
[here](http://app.box.com/s/be97xav31uyidvek5n2s0tsf6p63pekc). It also
has the Modernist House in it.

## Space Station House

This was originally made as part of a sky-block type of world and was
meant to be a housing unit as part of a big space station. Once it was
built I realised that it could be used as a stand-alone house or
apartment complex. The pictures may not show the true scale of it but
there is no world file for it yet. Once I figure out how to cut this
section from the sky-block world and paste it into it's own world, I'll
upload it and post the link. Until then, these pictures will have to do.

![Station_House_1.png](Station_House_1.png "Station_House_1.png")Each
pod at the end of the arms is a circular room big enough to use as an
apartment. The bigger, community rooms at the axle could be meeting
rooms or common rooms if you want to use this as a community building.
The biggest central room at the bottom has an inner diameter about 40
blocks and could be separated into many smaller rooms or used to house a
community pool, a laundry, etc.

<div style="overflow: hidden">

![Station_House_2.png](Station_House_2.png "Station_House_2.png")

</div>

## Open-Modern House

Here is another modern type house with an open design. This was first
inspired by a building in an animated show. It still needs a lot of
work, especially inside. 

When I have more done, I could add a link to an upload. 

<div style="overflow: hidden">

![Open_Mod_House1.jpg](Open_Mod_House1.jpg "Open_Mod_House1.jpg")

</div>

Stanimus 2015Sep v1.27

## Chalet Style Lodge

This lodge has an open plan on the two main floors. There's two suites
of rooms on the 1st floor, each with a bedroom and a utility (crafting)
room. It also has a kitchen and an open central area with a large
fireplace as the central focus. The second floor has two large bedrooms
and a wrap-around balcony over the center of the ground floor. A third
large room may be used as a trophy room. The third level is a large
library. The fourth and fifth floor comprise the master suite. A full,
large basement is also included.

This design is actually a copy of the largest house that spawns in Block
Story, with some modifications. It uses the 'Cartoon' texture.

<div style="overflow:hidden">

![Chalet_House.jpg](Chalet_House.jpg "Chalet_House.jpg")

</div>

And a shot of the main floor open area.

<div style="overflow:hidden">

![Chalet_main_floor.jpg](Chalet_main_floor.jpg
"Chalet_main_floor.jpg")

</div>

Stanimus dec2016

## Notes

  - Most block building games are similar enough to import ideas from
    other ones. There's many web pages that will help you with building
    or design ideas.
  - The game Block Story has a great variety of generated structures.
    [This page](http://block-story.wikia.com/wiki/Generated_Structures)
    is a showcase of these structures and may give you some great ideas.

[Category:Concepts](Category:Concepts "wikilink")