---
title: List_of_Seeds
description: 
published: true
date: 2025-10-12T23:59:59.972Z
tags: 
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2025-10-12T23:59:56.042Z
---

Version Used For Seeds is 1.29, all settings on default, unless
specified otherwise. These are just some seeds you can use on Survival
Craft. It is not guaranteed that seeds for 1.29 will work on version
2.0, but you can use them and see. **If the seed starts with a capital,
don't forget to use a capital.**

## Mountain Seeds

***Raisin-***You will be spawned on a mountain. On your right, you wil
see a desert with many mountains next to it. Behind you, there will be a
small prairie with a big forest behind it. To your left, there will be a
snow biome.

***Florida-***You will be spawned on a small sliver of sand. Once you
look behind you will see a big lake with a long mountain behind it.
Behind the mountain are many more mountains and lakes.

\[2.1\]\[Biome size 3x\] ***epix-***You will be spawned at the shore of
a mountain range. Good for a mountain village build. Bad for survival.

## Lakes/Ponds Seeds

***Florida-***You will spawn on a small sliver of sand. When you look
behind you, you will see a big lake with a long mountain behind it.
Behind the mountain are many more mountains and lakes.

***PowPow-***You will be spawned on a long sliver of flat land. There
will be a huge circular lake behind the land. Around the lake are many
different biomes.

##  Snow Biome Seeds

***below 0-***You will spawn on a small plain. Behind you will be a huge
snow biome with many trees and mountains. ***Mulan Italy-***Spawns you
on a sliver of grass and sand, once you turn around there should be a
huge snow biome.

## Plains/Prairie Seeds

***grav35-***You will spawn next to a big mountain. Next to and behind
the mountain are big plains. There is also a good sized forest next to
the plains, including hills and a lake.

***31590aft-***You will spawn on a great plain. Near the plain will be a
big lake and some hills.

\[2.1\] ***lfnnx-***You're starting in a huge plane with plenty of trees
and ivy. If you go for a short while you will see huge hills.

## Forest Seeds

***Batman & Robin-***You will instantly be spawned infront of a forest.
There is a snowy biome forest; behind the forest is a small desert.

***Boston-***You will be spawned on top of a tall spruce tree in a snowy
biome forest.

***new world-***You will spawn right in front of a big firest. In the
mix of the forest are some ponds and a desert.

"***Mountains and_***" (where _ is a space) - This seed will spawn you
near a jungle. Go forward from your spawning point until you hit some
graves in a prairie setting. You should get a jackolantern from the
graves\! Then turn east and go forward. The only problems with this map
are there are many lions... and bears. However, the fur from the bears
is valuable and can make you clothes to explore the icy land beyond the
jungle. There are caves that go to basalt\! One large cave I found on
the biome change to snow contained lava and water, as well as tons of
germanium, some iron, a ton of coal, and some sulfur. This map is very
fun, and is currently my fav seed\! Try it out\! -Trapmacer

\[2.1\] '''''BanRPs- '''''It comes with a river and a good forest. The
river may have piranhas, but wood from the forest can make a nice
bridge.

## Island Seeds

\[2.1\] ***41323-***You spawn near an island with two trees on it. When
you enter the cave and dig around a little bit you find can easily find
malachite. In addition to this you can dive under the island.

## Desert Seeds

\[2.2\]\[Biome size 0.5x\] ***Fack-***Starts you right next to a
sandstone cave. You can get saltpeter early on.

[List of the Best Seeds](List_of_the_Best_Seeds.md "wikilink")

[Category:Options and Seeds](Category:Options_and_Seeds "wikilink")