---
title: TOP_electrical_maps
description: 
published: true
date: 2025-10-13T00:19:26.679Z
tags: 
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2025-10-13T00:19:22.614Z
---

## **Description**

This post unites the best-of-the-bests electrical maps that are findable
on google. Every [map](Map_Downloads "wikilink") has its own video, that
shows its main features, and it has also a link to official thread to
forums and link to download. Although almost nobody looks at the forum,
it often contains useful info about the map (so it's better to visit
it). If you know better electronical maps, PM me a link to them (I will
maybe remake the list).

### **\#1 - *RoadRage 2 Ten mile challenge* by [mgblitz81](http://survivalcraft.lefora.com/members/mgblitz81/)**

The most epic and cool map ever made in Survivalcraft. I think mgblitz81
is a genius - just look at the main (not all) features

  - it's a fully functional videogame
  - it contains big [LED](../Recipaedia/Electrics/LED.md "wikilink") display
  - it includes three types of cars (they have different speeds)
  - it counts your progress in the game (in miles)
  - although it is a game in a game, it has realistic graphics (cars
    look like cars, road like road etc...)
  - and more...

Links - [Official thread
link](http://survivalcraft.lefora.com/2013/08/03/road-rage-2-ten-mile-challenge-an-epic-electrial-v/#post4),
[Download
link](https://dl.dropbox.com/s/y0rafg7qt0smb3c/Road%20Rage%202.scworld?dl=1)

Here is a video that shows gameplay:
![Survivalcraft_RoadRage_game\!\!](Survivalcraft_RoadRage_game!!
"Survivalcraft_RoadRage_game!!")

### **\#2 - *Darts for two players* by [JustPlaying](http://survivalcraft.lefora.com/members/justplaying/)**

Although this map does not contain level-pro electrical circuits, it
adds more fun to Survivalcraft, because it is made for two players.
There is no multiplayer added in the game yet, but it can be played with
the Pass2play method. It has also its own texture pack, for better
feeling while playing. Its main features are -

  - fully functional game
  - each player has his own target that shows his hits
  - each player has his own counter that tells him what did he hit and
    also shows a score
  - easily changable player's names (just re-write the signs)
  - and more...

Links - [Official thread
link](http://survivalcraft.lefora.com/2013/07/19/epic-darts-map-for-2-players-by-justplaying/#post8),
[Download
link](https://dl.dropboxusercontent.com/s/3tsz8gucbgbzkxc/Darts%20by%20JP.scworld?token_hash=AAHUKgIlDtz9wHShLBhlTPxGZmi2G-CslNu3UWeRw7iJPg&dl=1),
[Texture download
link](https://dl.dropboxusercontent.com/s/zspcl41t7ep71gi/-txt-%20Darts%20by%20JP.png?token_hash=AAG4dvI6tmv3V9og0_opu17YANh3oR9H0ZRw3UVZaG5xLA&dl=1)

Here is a video showing gameplay (with the Darts texture) -
![Survivalcraft_game_for_2_players_-_Darts](Survivalcraft_game_for_2_players_-_Darts
"Survivalcraft_game_for_2_players_-_Darts")

*MAKER'S NOTE: Sorry for the animals, but they hid in the wires' tunnels
and I can't find them. Sorry again. And the Darts texture is made just
for this map, it's not good for normal use.*

### **\#3 - *Electrical Temple Run* by [JustPlaying](http://survivalcraft.lefora.com/members/justplaying/)**

Remake of popular game - just in Survivalcraft. There are lots of Temple
Runs (for example the first was by ritehunter, link
[here](http://survivalcraft.lefora.com/2013/05/13/ritehunters-electrical-temple-run/)),
but this one is uniqe, because it uses more "traps" and also it's longer
than most of others. Features -

  - tutorial path
  - main path
  - lots of traps, from trapdoor-[lava](../Recipaedia/Terrain/Magma.md "wikilink") to sand and
    [spiked planks](../Recipaedia/Items/Spiked_Plank.md "wikilink")
  - longer than others

Links - [Official
thread](http://survivalcraft.lefora.com/2013/07/11/improved-temple-run-by-justplaying/),
[Download
link](https://dl.dropboxusercontent.com/s/s1jtkoskhl35p10/TempleRun%20by%20J.scworld?token_hash=AAHItbMPdetPZu_Hcm7FFFuVufIZHEC7dHk2NXMJ2MqYww&dl=1)

Here is a video showing how can you run -
![Survivalcraft_Electrical_Temple_Run](Survivalcraft_Electrical_Temple_Run
"Survivalcraft_Electrical_Temple_Run")

### '''\#4 - *PIN door lock with code showing displays* by unknown maker '''

*If someone knows who did this, PM me or edit this page. I think it was
Survivalcrafter, but I'm not sure.*

This is the probably the first bigger electrical map ever made. It can
be (or some parts of it can be) used in many adventure maps, or survival
houses. It has following features -

  - code lock
  - four seven-segments displays
  - shows the inputed code on the displays

Links - No official thread, [Download
link](https://dl.dropboxusercontent.com/s/nla2zzxchbzk5kh/PIN%20lock.scworld?token_hash=AAEP-04JlQ4jXvv7F8j6jAL_4pvtvsi38U_5_kou0tLG9Q&dl=1)

Here is a video showing it in action -
![Survivalcraft_PIN_lock_with_display](Survivalcraft_PIN_lock_with_display
"Survivalcraft_PIN_lock_with_display")

### **\#5 - *RoadRage 1* by [mgblitz81](http://survivalcraft.lefora.com/members/mgblitz81/)**

Although this is the first version of the game, (second version is
RoadRage: TMC) it's still cool and enjoyable to play. It was also the
first game ever in Survivalcraft, so big respect to mgblitz. It has
almost the same gameplay as the second version, but it has worse
graphics. Features -

  - fully functional videogame
  - two game modes - campaign (with levels) and survival (super-hard
    challenge)
  - simple controls
  - big [LED](../Recipaedia/Electrics/LED.md "wikilink") display

Links - [Official thread
link](http://survivalcraft.lefora.com/2013/06/09/road-rage-a-fully-functional-videogame/),
[Download
link](https://dl.dropbox.com/s/e08y0m3kmqp2g81/Road%20Rage%20VG.scworld?dl=1)

Here is a video showing the gameplay of both modes -
![Road_Rage_Mini_Game\!](Road_Rage_Mini_Game! "Road_Rage_Mini_Game!")

[Category:Electricity](Category:Electricity "wikilink") [Category:Tips
and Guides](Category:Tips_and_Guides "wikilink")