---
title: Egg
description: 
published: true
date: 2025-10-12T23:47:01.527Z
tags: 
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2025-10-12T23:46:57.563Z
---

__NOEDITSECTION__

## Description (From [Recipaedia]( "wikilink"))

*Spawner egg. Bird eggs are occasionally laid by adult birds. If you
look carefully, you may find and eat them. Cooking an egg will increase
its nutritional value.*

## Collecting Eggs

*See also: [Egg Farms](../Guides/Egg_Farms.md "wikilink")*

A bird must be on soft ground to lay an egg. It will not lay eggs on
granite or other hard surfaces. If you disturb a bird while it lays
eggs, it will cancel the process. A noise is created when a bird lays an
egg. Some birds may lay eggs more frequently, like
[ravens](../Bestiary/Raven.md "wikilink") and [ostriches](Ostrich "wikilink").

## Egg types

  - [Seagull](../Bestiary/Seagull.md "wikilink")
  - [Duck](Duck "wikilink")
  - [Raven](../Bestiary/Raven.md "wikilink")
  - [Ostrich](Ostrich "wikilink")
  - [Cassowary](Cassowary "wikilink")
  - Cooked variants of all of them restore much more hunger.

seagullegg.png|Seagull Egg duckegg.png|Duck Egg raven.png|Raven Egg
cassowaryegg.png|Cassowary Egg ostrich.png|Ostrich Egg

## Hunger restored from eggs

  - Raw small eggs - +20% Food (0.2 Nutritional Value) (Not Recommended
    to Eat)
  - Raw large egg - +40% Food (0.4 Nutritional Value) (Not Recommended
    to Eat)
  - Cooked small eggs- +30% Food (0.3 Nutritional Value)
  - Cooked large egg - +60% Food (0.6 Nutritional Value)

## Cooking eggs

![Cooking_eggs.jpg](Cooking_eggs.jpg "Cooking_eggs.jpg")Cooked eggs
provide more hunger points than raw eggs. To cook an egg, a raw egg and
a bucket of water must be placed in a furnace, giving the effect of
boiling.

It is not a safe idea to eat raw eggs, given that eating too much raw
food will make the player sick.

It's wasteful to cook eggs one at a time because it will use up one fuel
item for each egg. But each egg cooked moves the water bucket and the
process then stops.

There are two ways to avoid this. Either have enough water buckets to
allow all the eggs to cook unattended (11 per coal chunk), or have at
least 2 water buckets (3 is better). Then you have to watch the furnace
constantly and every time a water bucket moves, place it back in the
BATCH area before the *final* bucket is used.

A third option is to use smaller fuel units such as sulfur (each item
requires a total of 7 fuel value, and one sulfur chunk has 10) to cook
each individual egg, though this does mean you would have to supervise
the furnace where you would be cooking the eggs.

[Category:Spawner Eggs](Category:Spawner_Eggs "wikilink")
[Category:Edible](Category:Edible "wikilink")