---
title: Recipaedia
description: 
published: true
date: 2025-10-13T00:09:10.780Z
tags: 
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2025-10-13T00:09:06.810Z
---

__NOTOC__ __NOEDITSECTION__

## Description

<div style="overflow: hidden">

![1573_Recipaedia.png](1573_Recipaedia.png "1573_Recipaedia.png") The
Recipaedia is an in-game menu that gives you descriptions and recipes
for all available objects (blocks and items) in the game. All objects
are separated into categories. Each category will show a list that you
can choose from to get information on that object. Unobtainable blocks
and items are not included in the recipaedia.

</div>

## How to Find the Recipaedia

<div style="overflow: hidden">

To access the recipaedia in-game, open the icon bar at the top right of
the screen. Then tap the 'help' icon - the question mark.
![Recipaedia_1.PNG](Recipaedia_1.PNG "Recipaedia_1.PNG")

</div>

<div style="overflow: hidden">

The following screen can be accessed directly from the main screen with
the HELP button. At the bottom of the help screen will be a button for
the recipaedia, tap on this to bring up the recipaedia.
![Recipaedia_2.PNG](Recipaedia_2.PNG "Recipaedia_2.PNG")

</div>

## Using the Recipaedia

At the top of the recipaedia screen there is the 'go back' dart on the
left and the category selection bar in the center, with two more darts.
These two darts let you choose the category to view, while the current
category name is displayed in the middle. The main part of the window
shows the list of objects in this category. Tap on one to select it. You
can scroll the list up or down with the scroll bar on the right.

Once you have selected an object, the buttons at the bottom of the
screen will activate if appropriate. Touching these buttons will show
you the description of this object or any recipes for it.

<div style="overflow: hidden">

![Recip_inner_darts.png](Recip_inner_darts.png
"Recip_inner_darts.png")This picture shows a typical description screen.
There is another pair of darts at the top. These will scroll through all
objects listed under this category. The main part of the screen shows
the description for the chosen object. If it's a long description, you
can swipe the text up to show more. The bottom shows a list of important
values for this object. This can be swiped if it's a long list, too. 

</div>

<div style="overflow: hidden">

This picture shows an item that has more than one recipe. There is
another set of darts that let you scroll through the several recipes for
this item.

![Recipe_screen.png](Recipe_screen.png "Recipe_screen.png")

</div>

After you are finished looking through the information, tap the top-left
dart to back-up out of the recipaedia. 

## Categories

The categories listed in the recipaedia in ver. 2.2 are:

  - [All Blocks](:Category:Blocks "wikilink") (1573)
  - [Terrain](:Category:Terrain "wikilink") (31)
  - [Plants](:Category:Plants "wikilink") (51)
  - [Construction](:Category:Construction "wikilink") (29)
  - [Items](:Category:Items "wikilink") (74)
  - [Tools](:Category:Tools "wikilink") (40)
  - [Weapons](:Category:Weapons "wikilink") (27)
  - [Clothes](:Category:Clothing "wikilink") (38)
  - [Electrics](:Category:Electrics "wikilink") (69)
  - [Food](:Category:Food "wikilink") (19)
  - [Spawner Eggs](:Category:Spawner_Eggs "wikilink") (49)
  - [Painted](Painting "wikilink") (560)
  - [Dyed](Painting "wikilink") (330)
  - [Fireworks](Firework.md "wikilink") (256)
  - [Furniture](Furniture.md "wikilink") (Custom)

## History

1.1 - Recipedia is added to the game 1.7 - Recipedia is now available in
all situations 1.25 - Recipedia now tells you how many blocks are in
each category. Texture packs do not affect the images in the recipaedia.
1.26 - Added Clothing category. 1.27 - Added Construction category.
Removed Resources and Weapons categories. Recategorized many items.
Renamed Clothing to Clothes. 1.29 - Added Painted and Dyed categories.
Recategorized many items.

## Notes

  - Items that are not obtainable by the player (in any game mode) are
    not listed in the recipaedia. Some of which include: Spawner eggs
    for rare animals, fire, etc. 
  - It will show items that are only available in creative mode, if you
    are playing in any mode.

[Category:Content](Category:Content "wikilink")